A Comprehensive Bottom-Tracking Method for Sidescan Sonar Image Influenced by Complicated Measuring Environment	2017	J. H. Zhao, X. Wang, H. M. Zhang and A. X. Wang	SSS海底追踪	The estimations of water column depth and the towfish altitude and the measurements of the target's location and shape all depend on the accuracy and reliability of bottom tracking of a sidescan sonar (SSS) waterfall image. Traditionally, the threshold method has often been adopted, but it is difficult to achieve an ideal bottom-tracking result due to contamination of the water column image in complicated measuring environments such as suspended solids and strong absorption sediments. Besides, it is also time consuming and easy to be influenced by operators' experience because the threshold values used need to be set segmentally. To track the bottom accurately and efficiently, first, this paper studies the threshold method, the last peak method, the assumption of seabed continuous variation, and the symmetry assumption. Then, a comprehensive bottom-tracking method is proposed. To validate the proposed method, an SSS experiment was conducted in the Bohai Sea of China. The bottom tracking for the SSS images was carried out automatically by the developed software. Comparing the port and starboard towfish altitudes tracked for all SSS images, the proposed method achieves +/- 0.19 m of the standard deviation referenced to water depth at the points of measurement. Furthermore, taking the integration of the sounding data, the tidal level, and the towfish depth as reference, the proposed method obtains +/- 0.17 m of the standard deviation. These parameters show that the proposed method has high accuracy in bottom tracking. Finally, this method is further discussed in the applications, and the results show that it has better performance than the traditional threshold method where the SSS waterfall image is influenced under complicated measurement environment. A shortcoming induced by the SSS imaging mechanism is also found that this method may be invalid when high seabed targets lie at two sides of towfish nadir, which can be solved by increasing the towfish altitude.	
Multireceiver Correction for the Chirp Scaling Algorithm in Synthetic Aperture Sonar	2014	X. B. Zhang, J. S. Tang and H. P. Zhong	SAS成像改进	The phase center approximation (PCA) and the motion of the receiver array during reception are twomain conditions that must be solved to use fast-Fourier-based imaging techniques in multireceiver synthetic aperture sonar (SAS). The former issue affects focusing results at close range while the latter one influences imaging performances in far distance. The processing result is that the uncompensated phase errors, introduced by those two issues, would degrade SAS imaging quality seriously. Through the analysis of outgoing and incoming acoustic paths, this paper derives an improved PCA method, considering the influence under those two approximations, describes the residual effects of narrow-beam approximations for PCA and "stop-and-hop"(S&H) errors in 2-D space domain, and presents imagery processed with chirp scaling (CS) algorithm. Based on the simulation and lake-trial results, the new processingmethod provides image quality better than conventional algorithms.	
An Indirect Range-Doppler Algorithm for Multireceiver Synthetic Aperture Sonar Based on Lagrange Inversion Theorem	2017	X. B. Zhang, H. Huang, W. W. Ying, H. K. Wang and J. Xiao	SAS成像算法	This paper presents a novel imaging algorithm which has the capacity of processing multireceiver synthetic aperture sonar (SAS) data based on Vu's spectrum. There are two important issues when developing the fast Fourier-based imaging algorithms. One is the point target reference spectrum (PTRS) with analytical expression in the 2-D frequency domain; the other is the space variance of the PTRS. Vu has solved the first issue based on the Lagrange inversion theorem. However, the second issue has not been solved yet. Our approach in this paper is to apply Vu's spectral result in an indirect range-Doppler (R-D) imaging algorithm. For each transmitter/receiver pair, the close-form azimuth modulation is derived first, and then, range/azimuth coupling can be obtained via the difference between the PTRS and the azimuth modulation. Unlike traditional R-D algorithm, which utilizes the interpolation operation to eliminate the range cell migration (RCM), the RCM correction (RCMC) in this paper is carried out through two steps, i.e., bulk RCMC and differential RCMC. Bulk RCMC accounts for the RCMC in one reference range. Differential RCMC accomplished with a range-dependent subblock post-processing method is used to compensate for the space variant deviation phase error. Via the proposed method, the echoed signal corresponding to each transmitter/receiver pair is processed first. Following which, a high-resolution SAS complex image is obtained by coherent superposition of all the coarse subimages. Numerical simulations and real data processing results show that the proposed method has the similar focusing capabilities with the accurate back projection algorithm across the whole swath. Although the presented method has the disadvantage of latency, it is very easy to make a complete phase center approximation correction, allowing for the tandem nature of the collected data. Besides, the proposed algorithm can handle general case with explicit point of stationary phase (PSP) no matter how complicated the PSP is, and it is also suitable for the imagery of tandem synthetic aperture radar.	
Modeling of High-Resolution 3D Sonar for Image Recognition	2012	S. C. Yu, Z. Teng and D. J. Kang	3D物体建模和检测	Automated underwater 3D sonar image recognition has great potential to simplify many underwater tasks. Sonar modeling is necessary to recognize 3D object images. We propose a 3D sonar model that can predict what an object is based on by recognizing similarities to objects that pre-exist in a database. The sonar's displaying mechanism and characteristics of the 3D sonar image are studied. Due to the nature of acoustics, a sonar image is not necessarily always an accurate depiction of an object. The proposed model enables mapping of a 3D world onto a 2D sonar screen. This modeling framework enables the implementation of various optical vision techniques for recognition. Recognition experiments were conducted to evaluate the model's accuracy.	
Exploiting Environmental Information for Improved Underwater Target Classification in Sonar Imagery	2014	D. P. Williams and E. Fakiris	SAS环境目标分类	In many remote-sensing applications, measured data are a strong function of the environment in which they are collected. This paper introduces a new context-dependent classification algorithm to address and exploit this phenomenon. Within the proposed framework, an ensemble of classifiers is constructed, each associated with a particular environment. The key to the method is that the relative importance of each object (i.e., data point) during the learning phase for a given classifier is controlled via a modulating factor based on the similarity of auxiliary environment features. Importantly, the number of classifiers to learn and all other associated model parameters are inferred automatically from the training data. The promise of the proposed method is demonstrated on classification tasks seeking to distinguish underwater targets from clutter in synthetic aperture sonar imagery. The measured data were collected with an autonomous underwater vehicle during several large experiments, conducted at sea between 2008 and 2012, in different geographical locations with diverse environmental conditions. For these data, the environment was quantified by features (extracted from the imagery directly) measuring the anisotropy and the complexity of the seabed. Experimental results suggest that the classification performance of the proposed approach compares favorably to conventional classification algorithms as well as state-of-the-art context-dependent methods. Results also reveal the object features that are salient for performing target classification in different underwater environments.	
Adaptive Underwater Sonar Surveys in the Presence of Strong Currents	2016	D. P. Williams, F. Baralli, M. Micheli and S. Vasoli	SAS强流下探雷	We consider the task of conducting underwater surveys with a sonar-equipped autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) in environments with strong currents. More specifically, this topic is addressed in the context of mine countermeasure operations employing synthetic aperture sonar (SAS) sensors. Two complementary algorithms that allow the AUV to autonomously adapt its survey route based on sophisticated sensor data it collects in situ, while respecting the unique constraints imposed by the problem, are proposed. The algorithms allow the AUV to (i) adapt its survey heading based on the presence of currents to ensure quality data is collected, and (ii) adapt its survey route to reinspect the most suspicious objects at additional aspects. The flexibility to immediately react in situ to the environmental and tactical conditions sensed during the mission allow the most useful data for object recognition purposes to be collected efficiently. By obviating the recovery and redeployment of the AUV, as well as laboratory-based data-processing during the interregnum, the overall mission timeline can be greatly compressed and operational costs can be reduced. Experimental results illustrating the real-time execution of the proposed algorithms on an AUV are shown for a completely autonomous mission conducted in the North Sea.	
The Mondrian Detection Algorithm for Sonar Imagery	2018	D. P. Williams	SAS探雷	A new algorithm called the Mondrian detector has been developed for object detection in high-frequency synthetic aperture sonar (SAS) imagery. If a second (low) frequencyband image is available, the algorithm can seamlessly exploit the additional information via an auxiliary prescreener test. This flexible single-band and multiband functionality fills an important capability gap. The algorithm's overall prescreener component limits the number of potential alarms. The main module of the method then searches for areas that pass a subset of pixel-intensity tests. A new set of reliable classification features has also been developed in the process. The overall framework has been kept uncomplicated intentionally in order to facilitate performance estimation, to avoid requiring dedicated training data, and to permit delayed real-time detection at sea on an autonomous underwater vehicle. The promise of the new algorithm is demonstrated on six substantial data sets of real SAS imagery collected at various geographical sites that collectively exhibit a wide range of diverse seafloor characteristics. The results show that-as with Mondrian's art-simplicity can be powerful.	
Fast Unsupervised Seafloor Characterization in Sonar Imagery Using Lacunarity	2015	D. P. Williams	SAS无监督特征提取	A new unsupervised approach for characterizing seafloor in side-looking sonar imagery is proposed. The approach is based on lacunarity, which measures the pixel-intensity variation, of through-the-sensor data. No training data are required, no assumptions regarding the statistical distributions of the pixels are made, and the universe of (discrete) seafloor types need not be enumerated or known. It is shown how lacunarity can be computed very quickly using integral-image representations, thereby making real-time seafloor assessments on-board an autonomous underwater vehicle feasible. The promise of the approach is demonstrated on high-resolution synthetic-aperture-sonar imagery of diverse seafloor conditions measured at various geographical sites. Specifically, it is shown how lacunarity can effectively distinguish different seafloor conditions and how this fact can be exploited for target-detection performance prediction in mine-countermeasure operations.	
Fast Target Detection in Synthetic Aperture Sonar Imagery: A New Algorithm and Large-Scale Performance Analysis	2015	D. P. Williams	SAS目标探测	In this paper, a new unsupervised algorithm for the detection of underwater targets in synthetic aperture sonar (SAS) imagery is proposed. The method capitalizes on the high-quality SAS imagery whose high resolution permits many pixels on target. One particularly novel component of the method also detects sand ripples and estimates their orientation. The overall algorithm is made fast by employing a cascaded architecture and by exploiting integral-image representations. As a result, the approach makes near-real-time detection of proud targets in sonar data onboard an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) feasible. No training data are required because the proposed method is adaptively tailored to the environmental characteristics of the sensed data that are collected in situ. To validate and assess the performance of the proposed detection algorithm, a large-scale study of SAS images containing various mine-like targets is undertaken. The data were collected with the MUSCLE AUV during six large sea experiments, conducted between 2008 and 2012, in different geographical locations with diverse environmental conditions. The analysis examines detection performance as a function of target type, aspect, range, image quality, seabed environment, and geographical site. To our knowledge, this study-based on nearly 30 000 SAS images collectively covering approximately 160 km of seabed, and involving over 1100 target detection opportunities-represents the most extensive such systematic, quantitative assessment of target detection performance with SAS data to date. The analysis reveals the variables that have the largest impact on target detection performance, namely, image quality and environmental conditions on the seafloor. Ways to exploit the results for adaptive AUV surveys using through-the-sensor data are also suggested.	
Underwater Target Classification in Synthetic Aperture Sonar Imagery Using Deep Convolutional Neural Networks		D. P. Williams	SAS目标分类	Deep convolutional neural networks are used to perform underwater target classification in synthetic aperture sonar (SAS) imagery. The deep networks are learned using a massive database of real, measured sonar data collected at sea during different expeditions in various geographical locations. A novel training procedure is developed specially for the data from this new sensor modality in order to augment the amount of training data available for learning and to avoid overfitting. The deep networks learned are employed for several binary classification tasks in which different classes of objects in real sonar data are to be discriminated. The proposed deep approach consistently achieves superior performance to a traditional feature-based classifier that we had relied on previously.	
Application of 2D Fourier filtering for elimination of stripe noise in side-scan sonar mosaics	2012	D. Wilken, P. Feldens, T. Wunderlich and C. Heinrich	SSS条纹去噪	Different types of along-track stripe noise are common artifacts in side-scan sonar mosaics, hampering both visual image quality and automatic seabed classification attempts. In this study, a 2D Fourier domain slope filter is applied to remove stripes from side-scan sonar mosaics. This technique has the advantage of using only two simple tuning parameters, namely, the slope angle of the stripe noise, and a filtering width. Furthermore, the image processing tool presented here can be applied to non-optimally processed side-scan mosaics without the need of reprocessing the original data. The performance of the filter technique is demonstrated by two datasets in which stripe noise, including nadir stripes, has been successfully removed. To one of the filtered dataset a simple unsupervised seabed classification was then applied, leading to a much improved result with only little misclassification due to residual stripe noise.	
Advances in single-beacon one-way-travel-time acoustic navigation for underwater vehicles	2012	S. E. Webster, R. M. Eustice, H. Singh and L. L. Whitcomb	AUV信标导航	This paper reports the formulation and evaluation of a centralized extended Kalman filter designed for a novel navigation system for underwater vehicles. The navigation system employs Doppler sonar, depth sensors, synchronous clocks, and acoustic modems to achieve simultaneous acoustic communication and navigation. The use of a single moving reference beacon eliminates the requirement for the underwater vehicle to remain in a bounded navigable area; the use of underwater modems and synchronous clocks enables range measurements based on one-way time-of-flight information from acoustic data-packet broadcasts. The acoustic data packets are broadcast from a single, moving reference beacon and can be received simultaneously by multiple vehicles within acoustic range. We report results from a simulated deep-water survey and real field data collected from an autonomous underwater vehicle survey in 4000 m of water on the southern Mid-Atlantic Ridge with an independent long-baseline navigation system for ground truth.	
Narrowband Chan-Vese model of sonar image segmentation: A adaptive ladder initialization approach	2016	X. M. Wang, L. X. Guo, J. W. Yin, Z. P. Liu and X. Han	SSS分割	A narrowband Chan-Vese model with adaptive ladder initialization approach is proposed in this paper to segment underwater sonar image. Specifically, for the first time, the problem of more iterative times, human intervention necessity and lower segmentation accuracy, which are commonly exist in the SDF and BIF, was solved with the method utilizing the new adaptive ladder initialization of zero level set. Then, to further reduce the impact of the global search on traditional Chan-Vese model, the narrowband Chan-Vese model is introduced. It is shown that by applying the adaptive ladder initialization is ultimately local optimization and accurate segmentation results. On this basis, recurring to analysis of traditional Chan-Vese model law, combined with narrowband Chan-Vese model with adaptive ladder initialization approach, the objective and quantitative analysis method is developed. Finally, segmentation results demonstrate the effectiveness and adaptability of the proposed method. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	
Synthetic Aperture Sonar Track Registration Using SIFT Image Correspondences	2017	V. T. Wang and M. P. Hayes	SAS配准	Repeat-pass synthetic aperture sonar (SAS) imaging for change detection and interferometry relies on accurate image registration. SAS image registration is usually performed using a slow correlation-based method, whereas feature-based registration is becoming more prevalent for synthetic aperture radar due to its relative computational efficiency. In this paper we propose a sonar track registration method, from which the estimated track parameters can be used to compute an image registration. The proposed method uses the scale-invariant feature transform (SIFT), a popular algorithm for feature detection and matching, and is demonstrated on a simulated repeat-pass pair of SAS images. A model of the ideal sonar track geometry is presented. A least squares method is formulated for estimating the track registration from a set of noisy feature correspondences, where random sample consensus (RANSAC) is first used to reject outliers. The resulting track parameter estimate corresponds to an image registration aligned to within 0.03 pixels over the scene, which is within the 0.1-pixel resolution recommended for interferometric processing. The ground truth for the simulated ideal data is precisely known, which allowed for the subpixel localization accuracy of SIFT correspondences to be objectively evaluated. The interaction between the RANSAC error threshold and the misregistration error was also evaluated and found to be chaotic. Overall, our results indicate the potential for features to be used for faster coarse registration to reduce the computation time of a more accurate subsequent correlation-based registration.	
Coherence-Based Underwater Target Detection From Multiple Disparate Sonar Platforms	2011	J. D. Tucker and M. R. Azimi-Sadjadi	多声呐目标探测	This paper explores the use of multichannel coherence as a tool for detection of underwater targets from imagery captured from multiple disparate sonar systems. The use of multiple disparate sonars allows one to exploit a high-resolution sonar with good target definition while taking advantage of the clutter suppression abilities of a low-resolution broadband (BB) sonar coregistered over the same region to provide much better detection performance comparing to those of the single-sonar cases. In this paper, the standard Neyman-Pearson detector is extended to the dual disparate sonar case allowing target detection across two sensory channels simultaneously. A novel distributed detection system is also developed that exploits the use of multiple dual-sonar detectors for multiplatform target detection. Test results of the proposed detection methods are also presented on an underwater synthetic aperture sonar (SAS) imagery database containing data from three different imaging sonars operating at three different frequencies and resolutions. Test results illustrating the effectiveness of different coherent-based detection systems will be presented and benchmarked against those of two other detection methods in terms of probability of detection, false alarm rate, and the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve. Performance gains of about 23% in probability of detection were achieved over the benchmarked methods.	
Extended Range Doppler Algorithm for Multiple-Receiver Synthetic Aperture Sonar Based on Exact Analytical Two-Dimensional Spectrum	2016	Z. Tian, J. S. Tang, H. P. Zhong and S. Zhang	SAS成像算法	For the imaging of multiple-receiver synthetic aperture sonar (SAS) under the nonstop-hop-stop case, an exact analytical solution for the two-dimensional (2-D) frequency spectrum is usually difficult to obtain because of the existence of the double-square-root (DSR) term in the range history equation. Several approximate solutions for the 2-D spectrum have been derived to focus the multiple-receiver SAS data. In this paper, the range history geometry for multiple-receiver SAS is newly constructed to meet the demand of the derivation of an analytical 2-D spectrum. According to the geometry-based bistatic formula (GBF) method, a quasi-analytical 2-D spectrum with an unknown variable named half quasi-bistatic angle (HQBA) is reviewed. Based on the method of series reversion (MSR), the fourth order equation with respect to the HQBA is solved and an analytical HQBA is obtained. After substituting the analytical HQBA into the quasi-analytical 2-D spectrum, a completely analytical 2-D spectrum is obtained and the problem of the 2-D spectrum derivation caused by the DSR term is solved successfully. In this paper, an extended range Doppler (RD) algorithm based on the derived 2-D spectrum is proposed for focusing the multiple-receiver SAS data under the non stop-hop-stop case. The results of simulation and real experiment data imaging have validated the effectiveness and accuracy of the proposed algorithm.	
Underwater Inspection using Sonar-based Volumetric Submaps		P. V. Teixeira, M. Kaess, F. S. Hover and J. J. Leonard	FLS测绘SLAM	We propose a submap-based technique for mapping of underwater structures with complex geometries. Our approach relies on the use of probabilistic volumetric techniques to create submaps from multibeam sonar scans, as these offer increased outlier robustness. Special attention is paid to the problem of denoising/enhancing sonar data. Pairwise submap alignment constraints are used in a factor graph framework to correct for navigation drift and improve map accuracy. We provide experimental results obtained from the inspection of the running gear and bulbous bow of a 600-foot, Wright-class supply ship.	
Bats use a neuronally implemented computational acoustic model to form sonar images	2012	J. A. Simmons	仿生蝙蝠回声定位	This paper reexamines neurophysiological results from echolocating big brown bats to propose a new perspective on FM biosonar processing in the auditory system. Individual auditory neurons are frequency-tuned and respond to brief, 2-10 ms FM sweeps with an average of one spike per sound to register their tuned frequencies, to detect echo arrival, or to register a local null in the echo spectrum. When initiated by the broadcast, these responses comprise a cascade of single spikes distributed across time in neurons tuned to different frequencies that persists for 30-50 ms, long after the sound has ended. Their progress mirrors the broadcast's propagation away from the bat and the return of echoes for distances out to 5-8 m. Each returning echo evokes a similar pattern of single spikes that coincide with ongoing responses to the broadcast to register the target's distance and shape. The hypothesis advanced here is that this flow of responses over time acts as an internal model of sonar acoustics that the bat executes using neuronal computations distributed across many neurons to accumulate a dynamic image of the bat's surroundings.	
Detecting a nearshore fish parade using the adaptive resolution imaging sonar (ARIS): An automated procedure for data analysis	2017	S. Shahrestani, H. S. Bi, V. Lyubchich and K. M. Boswell	ARIS探鱼	Recent developments in sonar imaging provide an efficient way of obtaining near video quality of frees-wimming fish in hard to reach areas, e.g., permanent structures like docks and piers, and hard to see environments, e.g., highly turbid waters. However, processing large volumes of data output by sonar imaging systems remains a major challenge. In the present study, we developed an automated image processing procedure to process footage recorded for 59 consecutive hours using an Adaptive Resolution Imaging Sonar, ARIS Explorer 3000 (Sound Metrics INC) deployed at a fixed location. Our approach successfully counted large free swimming fish at a precision rate >94% and estimated sample volume with manual and automatic calculations being highly correlated (r = 0.96). An auto-regressive time series model (of the sixth or higher order) with a zero-inflated Poisson distribution was used to estimate local abundance. Fish counts were low to zero during the first 31 h of sampling, and a major influx of fish occurred in the last 28 h. The observed pattern was co-incidental with local weather patterns: intermittent thunderstorms in the first 32 h and relatively calm weather in the last 24 h. Though thunderstorms limited our conclusions on fish-pier usage with tidal and diurnal cycles, it is apparent that weather conditions play a role in pier usage by large fish. Overall, the ARIS3000 deployment, automated data processing and statistical analyses used in this study proved successful in studying fish affiliations with piers in shallow habitats. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	
Wideband Interferometry in Synthetic Aperture Sonar	2013	T. O. Saebo, S. A. V. Synnes and R. E. Hansen	宽带SAS	Synthetic aperture sonar (SAS) interferometry can provide very high resolution images and topographic maps of the seafloor over large swaths. Processing of interferometric data to retrieve reliable depth estimates of the seafloor is, however, nontrivial. Traditional narrowband interferometry processing relies on advanced phase unwrapping techniques, constraints, and prior knowledge to resolve phase ambiguities. These methods all have dependencies throughout the dataset, e. g., a small error in the assumption may cause a global error in the final phase estimate. For wideband systems, there are alternative techniques to estimate the absolute (or ambiguity-free) phase difference directly. We consider four different wideband interferometry techniques for direct phase difference estimation: complex cross correlation, split-spectrum algorithm, and the multichromatic approach. In addition, we develop a weighted split-spectrum algorithm, where the weights minimize the variance in the absolute phase estimate. We benchmark these techniques on simulated data and demonstrate the techniques on real data from the HISAS wideband interferometric SAS on a HUGIN autonomous underwater vehicle. We have found the following: the cross correlation technique always outperforms the other techniques in misregistrated areas caused by severe topographic changes. The split spectrum techniques are substantially faster than the cross correlation technique. The multichromatic approach has similar performance as the multiband split spectrum technique for the same choice of bands. We demonstrate that all the wideband interferometry techniques outperform a standard Goldstein's Branch cut phase unwrapping algorithm on real data from a complicated scene containing an elevated target and severe layover.	
Use of high-frequency imaging sonar (DIDSON) to observe fish behaviour towards a surface trawl	2012	G. Rakowitz, M. Tuser, M. Riha, T. Juza, H. Balk and J. Kubecka	DIDISON探鱼	Observing and quantifying fish behaviour towards active sampling gears like trawls is challenging. A high-frequency imaging sonar (DIDSON) was applied to directly observe and record fish avoidance behaviour in front of the mouth of an active pelagic surface trawl in the meso- to eutrophic Czech reservoir Zelivka in August 2009. In this multi-species environment the fish displayed a variety of behavioural patterns. We classified 11 different categories of avoidance (n = 1051) based on fish reaction and swimming behaviour towards the active trawl using Sonar5-Pro software. Classification of these categories was based on eight continuous variables: (1) total fish length, (2) distance to the trawl, (3) tortuosity, (4) mean speed of total track, (5) mean speed of first avoidance track, (6) mean speed of total avoidance track, (7) angle between initial and first avoidance track and (8) angle between initial and total avoidance track. The acoustic analysis showed that 76% of the fish in trawling area was captured and 24% swam out of it. A higher proportion of the fish showed an avoidance reaction during the day (44%) than during the night (6%), indicating that ambient light conditions trigger this behaviour during the day. A two-step cluster analysis of the tracks revealed three distinct clusters that corresponded to the most abundant fish species in the reservoir: 'bleak-cluster', 'bream-cluster' and 'silver carp-cluster'. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	
Robust Multitarget Tracking in Forward-Looking Sonar Image Sequences Using Navigational Data	2012	I. Quidu, L. Jaulin, A. Bertholom and Y. Dupas	FLS目标追踪	This paper presents a new approach to the problem of tracking objects in sequences of forward-looking sonar images. Unlike previous work, navigational data are taken as inputs to the state model of the Kalman filter used for tracking fixed obstacles. This model allows a robust prediction of their apparent motion in relation to the position of the sonar. A complete framework is presented where detection and data association issues are also discussed. An assessment of the proposed method has been carried out on real data from two different systems. Moreover, whereas the state model was first derived for a ground obstacle, a modified state model is proposed to estimate the altitude of the obstacle in relation to the sonar position using a number of successive pings.	
Evaluating the use of side-scan sonar for detecting freshwater mussel beds in turbid river environments	2015	J. Powers, S. K. Brewer, J. M. Long and T. Campbell	SSS生物群定位	Side-scan sonar is a valuable tool for mapping habitat features in many aquatic systems suggesting it may also be useful for locating sedentary biota. The objective of this study was to determine if side-scan sonar could be used to identify freshwater mussel (unionid) beds and the required environmental conditions. We used side-scan sonar to develop a series of mussel-bed reference images by placing mussel shells within homogenous areas of fine and coarse substrates. We then used side-scan sonar to map a 32-km river reach during spring and summer. Using our mussel-bed reference images, several river locations were identified where mussel beds appeared to exist in the scanned images and we chose a subset of sites (n = 17) for field validation. The validation confirmed that similar to 60% of the sites had mussel beds and similar to 80% had some mussels or shells present. Water depth was significantly related to our ability to predict mussel-bed locations: predictive ability was greatest at depths of 1-2 m, but decreased in water >2-m deep. We determined side-scan sonar is an effective tool for preliminary assessments of mussel presence during times when they are located at or above the substrate surface and in relatively fine substrates excluding fine silt.	
Observer bias and subsampling efficiencies for estimating the number of migrating fish in rivers using Dual-frequency IDentification SONar (DIDSON)	2014	I. C. Petreman, N. E. Jones and S. W. Milne	DISON探鱼	Fixed-location, side-looking, multibeam, sonar techniques offer a practical approach to estimate the numbers of migrating fish in rivers that are too large or occluded for traditional sampling methods, such as weir trapping, visual observation techniques, and netting. While this technology has been used to enumerate salmonid escapement in coastal river systems of western North America, little use and evaluation has occurred in inland waters such as the Great Lakes, where rivers and runs of fish are considerably smaller than those along the Pacific coast. We use a "Dual-frequency IDentification SONar" ("DIDSON") imaging sonar system to investigate the error and variability among nine people performing fish counts. There was no significant difference found among observers' estimates of fish abundance per DIDSON file; however, the total count of all fish differed from the benchmark value by as much as 26%. Post-processing simple fish counts from DIDSON raw data is labour-intensive and costly. Three subsampling methods of fish passage estimations were developed and evaluated for their accuracy and precision for daily and seasonal time frames. The random and systematic subsampling methods had similar seasonal and daily accuracy and precision with few exceptions. Automation-assisted counting was much more accurate and efficient for seasonal estimates. A ratio of approximately 2:1 was found for the automated to manual fish counts and this varied little among years. The DIDSON multibeam sonar unit is useful in estimating potamodromous fish migrations for large tributaries of the Great Lakes. DIDSON image processing costs can be minimized through suitable subsampling approaches. The automation-assisted method is the most cost-effective means of estimating moderate levels of fish passage over longer study periods. Multiple individuals can be used interchangeably for the manual post-processing of DIDSON data. Crown Copyright (C) 2014 Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	
AUV Navigation and Localization: A Review	2014	L. Paull, S. Saeedi, M. Seto and H. Li	综述AUV导航定位	Autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) navigation and localization in underwater environments is particularly challenging due to the rapid attenuation of Global Positioning System (GPS) and radio-frequency signals. Underwater communications are low bandwidth and unreliable, and there is no access to a global positioning system. Past approaches to solve the AUV localization problem have employed expensive inertial sensors, used installed beacons in the region of interest, or required periodic surfacing of the AUV. While these methods are useful, their performance is fundamentally limited. Advances in underwater communications and the application of simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) technology to the underwater realm have yielded new possibilities in the field. This paper presents a review of the state of the art of AUV navigation and localization, as well as a description of some of the more commonly used methods. In addition, we highlight areas of future research potential.	
Archaeological use of Synthetic Aperture Sonar on deepwater wreck sites in Skagerrak	2018	O. Odegard, R. E. Hansen, H. Singh and T. J. Maarleveld	SAS沉船测绘	Marine archaeological surveying in deep waters has so far been challenging, mainly due to operational and technological constraints. The standard tool has been Side Scan Sonar (SSS) towed behind a surface vessel. Synthetic Aperture Sonar (SAS) technology is not subject to the traditional range/resolution tradeoff, and produces results of considerably higher quality than traditional SSS. In 2015 and 2016 a comprehensive mapping of wrecks in Skagerrak, a large deepwater area off the south coast of Norway was undertaken, using an interferometric SAS system deployed on an autonomous underwater vehicle. By examining data from two passes of one of the many historical wrecks that were detected in the survey area, we demonstrate how SAS can be used to produce very high resolution imagery and bathymetry of wreck sites. Furthermore, post processing techniques are applied to exploit the high information content inherent in SAS data, enhancing aspects of the data for relevant archaeological analysis and interpretation. We show in this paper how SAS technology represents significant improvements in our abilities to conduct high quality and high resolution seabed mapping. The adoption of this technology will both benefit archaeological research and provide knowledge for better decision making in underwater cultural heritage management. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	
On 3-D Motion Estimation From Feature Tracks in 2-D FS Sonar Video	2013	S. Negahdaripour	FLS三维运动估计	Visual odometry involves the computation of 3-D motion and (or) trajectory by tracking features in the video or image sequences recorded by the camera(s) on some autonomous terrestrial, aerial, and marine robotics platform. For exploration, mapping, inspection, and surveillance operations within turbid waters, high-frequency 2-D forward-scan sonar systems offer a significant advantage over cameras by providing both imagery with target details and attractive tradeoff in range, resolution, and data rate. Operating these at grazing incidence gives larger scene coverage and improved image quality due to the dominance of diffuse backscattered reflectance but induces cast shadows that are typically more distinct than brightness patterns due to the direct reflectance of casting objects. For the computation of 3-D motion by automatic video processing, the estimation accuracy and robustness can be enhanced by integrating the visual cues from shadow dynamics with the image flow of stationary 3-D objects, both induced by sonar motion. In this paper, we present the mathematical models of image flow for 3-D objects and their cast shadows, utilize them in devising various 3-D sonar motion estimation solutions, and study their robustness. We present results of experiments with both synthetic and real data in order to assess the accuracy and performance of these methods.	
Graph-Based Supervised Automatic Target Detection	2015	G. Mishne, R. Talmon and I. Cohen	DL水雷探测	In this paper, we propose a detection method based on data-driven target modeling, which implicitly handles variations in the target appearance. Given a training set of images of the target, our approach constructs models based on local neighborhoods within the training set. We present a new metric using these models and show that, by controlling the notion of locality within the training set, this metric is invariant to perturbations in the appearance of the target. Using this metric in a supervised graph framework, we construct a low-dimensional embedding of test images. Then, a detection score based on the embedding determines the presence of a target in each image. The method is applied to a data set of side-scan sonar images and achieves impressive results in the detection of sea mines. The proposed framework is general and can be applied to different target detection problems in a broad range of signals.	
Detection of deep water benthic macroalgae using image-based classification techniques on multibeam backscatter at Cashes Ledge, Gulf of Maine, USA	2011	C. McGonigle, J. H. Grabowski, C. J. Brown, T. C. Weber and R. Quinn	MBES藻类分类	Benthic macroalgae form an important part of temperate marine ecosystems, exhibiting a complex three-dimensional character which represents a vital foraging and spawning ground for many juvenile fish species. In this research, image-based techniques for classification of multibeam backscatter are explored for the detection of benthic macroalgae at Cashes Ledge in the Gulf of Maine, USA. Two classifications were performed using QTC-Multiview, differentiated by application of a threshold filter, and macroalgal signatures were independently extracted from the raw sonar datagrams in Matlab. All classifications were validated by comparison with video ground-truth data. The unfiltered classification shows a high degree of complexity in the shallowest areas within the study site; the filtered demonstrates markedly less variation by depth. The unfiltered classification shows a positive agreement with the video ground-truth data; 82.6% of observations recording Laminaria sp., 39.1% of Agarum cribrosum and 100.0% (n = 3) of mixed macroalgae occur within the same acoustically distinct group of classes. These are discrete from the 8.1% recorded agreement with absences and nulls (>40 m) of macrophytes (n = 32) from a total of 86 ground-truth locations. The results of the water column data extraction (WCDE) show similar success, accurately predicting 78.3% of Laminaria sp. and 30.4% of A. cribrosum observations. The unfiltered classes which showed agreement with the ground-truth data were then compared to the WCDE results. Comparison of surface areas reveals the overall percentage agreement is relatively constant with depth (67.0-70.0%), with Kappa coefficient increasing from k = 0.17-0.35 as depth (and surface area) increases. The results have demonstrated that both methods were more effective at detecting the presence of Laminaria sp. (82.6-77.3%) than Agarum cribrosum, (66.6-30.4%), and that the efficiency of prediction decreased with depth. Canopy volume derived from the WCDE analysis was between 1.21 x 10(6) m(3) at <24 m water depth, 1.82 x 10(6) m(3) at <30 m and 2.45 x 10(6) m(3) at <40 m. These results suggest that the presence of benthic macrophytes has a significant capacity to affect image-based classification of acoustic data, and highlights the fact that multibeam backscatter and image-based classification have significant potential for benthic macroalgal research. This is beneficial to help refine segmentations of substrates, adding valuable contextual information about biological characteristics of infaunal and epifaunal benthic communities. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	
The use of acoustic cameras in shallow waters: new hydroacoustic tools for monitoring migratory fish population. A review of DIDSON technology	2015	F. Martignac, A. Daroux, J. L. Bagliniere, D. Ombredane and J. Guillard	综述DISON探鱼	European Union legislation, through the Water Framework Directive (2000/60/EC), as well as national legislation, such as the Grenelle Environnement' (2007) in France, requires restoration of ecological connectivity in streams to improve free circulation of migratory fish. Different methods (e.g. capture by trap or net, telemetry, hydroacoustics) are used to evaluate the efficiency of fish passes to estimate the migratory species abundance and analyse changes in their within-river distributions. Among these methods, hydroacoustics is non-intrusive, allowing long-term observation and description of fish populations based on physical properties of sound in water. However, the main limit to hydroacoustic tools is their difficulty in identifying species. Initially designed for military purposes, dual-frequency identification sonar (DIDSON) has been used in environmental management for a decade. This acoustic camera uses higher frequencies and more sub-beams than common hydroacoustic tools, which improves image resolution and then enables observation of fish morphology and swimming behaviour. The ability to subtract static echoes from echograms and directly measure fish length improve the species-identification process. However, some limits have been identified, such as automatic dataset recording and the low range of the detection beam, which decreases accuracy, but efficient tools are now being developed to improve the accuracy of data recording (morphology, species identification, direction and speed). The new technological properties of acoustic cameras, such as the video-like visualization of the data, have greatly improved monitoring of diadromous fish populations (abundance, distribution and behaviour), helping river and fisheries managers and researchers in making decisions.	
Scan matching SLAM in underwater environments	2014	A. Mallios, P. Ridao, D. Ribas and E. Hernandez	AUV水下SLAM	This paper proposes a pose-based algorithm to solve the full simultaneous localization and mapping problem for autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) navigating in unknown and possibly unstructured environments. The proposed method first estimates the local path traveled by the robot while forming the acoustic image (scan) with range data coming from a mono-beam rotating sonar head, providing position estimates for correcting the distortions that the vehicle motion produces in the scans. Then, consecutive scans are cross-registered under a probabilistic scan matching technique for estimating the displacements of the vehicle including the uncertainty of the scan matching result. Finally, an augmented state extended Kalman filter estimates and keeps the registered scans poses. No prior structural information or initial pose are considered. The viability of the proposed approach has been tested reconstructing the trajectory of a guided AUV operating along a 600 m path within a marina environment.	
Toward Autonomous Exploration in Confined Underwater Environments	2016	A. Mallios, P. Ridao, D. Ribas, M. Carreras and R. Camilli	AUV水下SLAM	In this field note, we detail the operations and discuss the results of an experiment conducted in the unstructured environment of an underwater cave complex using an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV). For this experiment, the AUV was equipped with two acoustic sonar sensors to simultaneously map the caves' horizontal and vertical surfaces. Although the caves' spatial complexity required AUV guidance by a diver, this field deployment successfully demonstrates a scan-matching algorithm in a simultaneous localization and mapping framework that significantly reduces and bounds the localization error for fully autonomous navigation. These methods are generalizable for AUV exploration in confined underwater environments where surfacing or predeployment of localization equipment is not feasible, and they may provide a useful step toward AUV utilization as a response tool in confined underwater disaster areas. (C) 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.	
The Impact of the Temporal Variability of Seafloor Roughness on Synthetic Aperture Sonar Repeat-Pass Interferometry	2013	A. P. Lyons and D. C. Brown	SAS测量海底粗糙度	In this paper, we review past work and present new analysis of the temporal variability of seafloor roughness and how this variability impacts synthetic aperture sonar (SAS) repeat-pass interferometry. The new work presented here uses a model based on first-order perturbation theory for acoustic interface scattering to link the complex coherence of SAS images taken at different times to the decorrelation of seafloor-roughness spectral estimates. Results are assessed through a comparison of decorrelation values generated by processing seafloor roughness data recorded by a digital photogrammetry system and complex SAS image data acquired with a translating source/receiver rail assembly. These data sets were collected on sandy seafloors off the western coast of Florida as part of the U. S. Office of Naval Research (ONR)-sponsored 2004 Sediment Acoustics Experiment (SAX04). Our results show that the diffusion model for changes in sediment roughness developed previously [D. R. Jackson et al., IEEE J. OCEAN. ENG., vol. 34, no. 4, pp. 407-422, Oct. 2009] provides an excellent fit to our data over a large range of spatial frequencies. In both the past work and new analysis, decorrelation was found to be frequency dependent with e-folding times (i. e., decay constants) of hours to days, setting a limit on reasonable time frames for successful repeat-pass coherent change detection.	
Do marine substrates 'look' and 'sound' the same? Supervised classification of multibeam acoustic data using autonomous underwater vehicle images	2013	V. Lucieer, N. A. Hill, N. S. Barrett and S. Nichol	MBES底质分类	In this study we outline the techniques used to transform multibeam acoustic data into spatial layers that can be used for predictive habitat modelling. The results allow us to identify multibeam attributes which may act as potential surrogates for environmental variables that influence biodiversity and define which variables may be reliable for predicting the distribution of species in temperate waters. We explore a method for analysing the spatially coincident multibeam bathymetric and backscatter data from shallow coastal waters to generate spatial data products that relate to the classes derived from fine-scale visual imagery obtained using an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV). Classifications of the multibeam data are performed for substrate, rugosity and sponge cover. Overall classification accuracies for the classes associated with substratum, rugosity and sponge structure were acceptable for biodiversity assessment applications. Accuracies were highest for rugosity classes at 65%, followed by substratum classes at 64% and then sponge structure classes at 57%. Random forest classifiers at a segmentation scale of 30 performed best in classifying substratum and rugosity, while K-nearest neighbour classifiers performed best for sponge structure classes, with no difference in accuracy between scale 30 and 60. Incorporating backscatter variables using segmentation improved the overall accuracy achieved by the best performing model by between 1% (rugosity) and 9% (substratum) above using topographic variables only in the grid-based analyses. Results suggest that image-based backscatter classification show considerable promise for the interpretation of multibeam sonar data for the production of substrate maps. A particular outcome of this research is to provide appropriate and sufficiently fine-scale physical covariates from the multibeam acoustic data to adequately inform models predicting the distribution of biodiversity on benthic reef habitats. Crown Copyright (c) 2012 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	
Pose-Graph SLAM Using Forward-Looking Sonar	2018	J. Li, M. Kaess, R. M. Eustice and M. Johnson-Roberson	FLS水下SLAM	This letter reports on a real-time simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) algorithm for an underwater robot using an imaging forward-looking sonar and its application in the area of autonomous underwater ship hull inspection. The proposed algorithm overcomes specific challenges associated with deliverable underwater acoustic SLAM, including feature sparsity and false-positive data association when utilizing sonar imagery. An advanced machine learning technique is used to provide saliencyaware loop closure proposals. A more reliable data association approach using different available constraints is also developed. Our evaluation is presented on the real-world data collected in a ship hull inspection application, which illustrates the system's performance and robustness.	
A review of marine geomorphometry, the quantitative study of the seafloor	2016	V. Lecours, M. F. J. Dolan, A. Micallef and V. L. Lucieer	综述海底地貌探测	Geomorphometry, the science of quantitative terrain characterization, has traditionally focused on the investigation of terrestrial landscapes. However, the dramatic increase in the availability of digital bathymetric data and the increasing ease by which geomorphometry can be investigated using geographic information systems (GISs) and spatial analysis software has prompted interest in employing geomorphometric techniques to investigate the marine environment. Over the last decade or so, a multitude of geomorphometric techniques (e.g. terrain attributes, feature extraction, automated classification) have been applied to characterize seabed terrain from the coastal zone to the deep sea. Geomorphometric techniques are, however, not as varied, nor as extensively applied, in marine as they are in terrestrial environments. This is at least partly due to difficulties associated with capturing, classifying, and validating terrain characteristics underwater. There is, nevertheless, much common ground between terrestrial and marine geomorphometry applications and it is important that, in developing marine geomorphometry, we learn from experiences in terrestrial studies. However, not all terrestrial solutions can be adopted by marine geomorphometric studies since the dynamic, four-dimensional (4-D) nature of the marine environment causes its own issues throughout the geomorphometry workflow. For instance, issues with underwater positioning, variations in sound velocity in the water column affecting acoustic-based mapping, and our inability to directly observe and measure depth and morphological features on the seafloor are all issues specific to the application of geomorphometry in the marine environment. Such issues fuel the need for a dedicated scientific effort in marine geomorphometry. This review aims to highlight the relatively recent growth of marine geomorphometry as a distinct discipline, and offers the first comprehensive overview of marine geomorphometry to date. We address all the five main steps of geomorphometry, from data collection to the application of terrain attributes and features. We focus on how these steps are relevant to marine geomorphometry and also highlight differences and similarities from terrestrial geomorphometry. We conclude with recommendations and reflections on the future of marine geomorphometry. To ensure that geomorphometry is used and developed to its full potential, there is a need to increase awareness of (1) marine geomorphometry amongst scientists already engaged in terrestrial geomorphometry, and of (2) geomorphometry as a science amongst marine scientists with a wide range of backgrounds and experiences.	
Can acoustic shadows identify fish species? A novel application of imaging sonar data	2012	M. C. Langkau, H. Balk, M. B. Schmidt and J. Borcherding	DIDISON探鱼	This study addresses a fish species discrimination method based on normalised elliptic Fourier descriptors applied to acoustic shadows derived by Dual-frequency Identification Sonar (DIDSON). Acoustic shadows of templates (20, 30, 40 and 50 cm) and live fish of four species [bream, Abramis brama (L.); barbel, Barbus barbus (L.); chub, Leuciscus cephalus (L.); and trout, Salmo trutta (L.)] were projected on a plate in an experimental set-up and tested on suitability for species discrimination. Twenty-centimetre templates were correctly classified in 97.5% of the cases, indicating a size threshold. The larger templates reached values of 100% correct classification based on cross-validated discriminant function analysis. It was also possible to classify moving fish based on screenshots of their acoustic shadows with a certainty of 83.9%. Extended field tests are required to evaluate the method for use in practical monitoring applications in multispecies river environments.	
Convolutional Neural Network-based Real-time ROV Detection Using Forward-looking Sonar Image		J. Kim and S. C. Yu	FLS检测定位ROV	Agent system is strategy to enhance the underwater manipulation. The conventional manipulation is generally robot arm-based configuration which has singular points. On the other hand, the agent system is an armless manipulation that the agent vehicle works as the end-effector. If the location of the agent can be measured, the end effector is able to be place to any position. To implement this system, the method of an agent vehicle localization is proposed. The method uses the sonar images of moving agent obtained by forward-looking sonar. To detect the location of the agent in the sonar images, the convolutional neural network is applied. We applied the state-of-art object-detection algorithm to the agent vehicle system. The fast object-detection algorithm based on neural network can fulfil the real-time detection and show the remarkable validity. It means the underwater robot can begin navigation under its feed-back. Through field experiment, we confirm the proposed method can detect and track the agent in the successive sonar images.	
Development of Simulator for Autonomous Underwater Vehicles utilizing Underwater Acoustic and Optical Sensing Emulators		J. Kim, M. Sung and S. C. Yu	AUV声学光学模拟器	This paper addresses an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) simulator with underwater image sonar and optical vision emulation. Recently, various underwater missions have been automated through the great improvement in underwater image sonar and optical vision technology along with utilization of artificial intelligence. Development of the simulator that emulates underwater image sonar and optical vision can support intelligent underwater missions by visualizing and simulating virtual scenarios and reproducing real missions. In order to benefit from existing software, the presented simulator is based on ROS (Robot Operating System) environment integrated with our image sonar and optical vision emulators. When an underwater virtual scenario of terrain, target objects, and AUVs with sensors is plotted using standard 3-D modeling progams, the simulator configures the scenario and displays sonar and optical images. The ultrasound and light beams arc modeled as a set of rays each, and the image sonar and optical vision are modeled as objects detecting collisions between the rays and target objects at certain positions and orientations. The sonar images generated by the simulator are compared with real images to confirm the validity of the models	
Adaptive autonomous underwater vehicles for littoral surveillance The GLINT10 field trial results	2011	S. Kemna, M. J. Hamilton, D. T. Hughes and K. D. LePage	 AUV水下监控	Autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) have gained more interest in recent years for military as well as civilian applications. One potential application of AUVs is for the purpose of undersea surveillance. As research into undersea surveillance using AUVs progresses, issues arise as to how an AUV acquires, acts on, and shares information about the undersea battle space. These issues naturally touch on aspects of vehicle autonomy and underwater communications, and need to be resolved through a spiral development process that includes at sea experimentation. This paper presents a recent AUV implementation for active anti-submarine warfare tested at sea in the summer of 2010. On-board signal processing capabilities and an adaptive behavior are discussed in both a simulation and experimental context. The implications for underwater surveillance using AUVs are discussed.	
Automatic Sea-Surface Obstacle Detection and Tracking in Forward-Looking Sonar Image Sequences	2015	I. Karoui, I. Quidu and M. Legris	FLS海面障碍物检测	Automatic sea-surface object detection and tracking for safe autonomous underwater vehicle and submarine surfacing is a critical issue in relation to the accidents reported in the last decades. Here, we propose an efficient tool to detect and track sea-surface obstacles by processing forward-looking sonar images. The proposed method can detect either still or moving objects with and without wake. For each image sequence, a sequential procedure is proposed to detect various obstacle signatures. Then, target positions and velocities are estimated in Cartesian coordinates using the debiased converted measurement Kalman filter and the joint probabilistic data association filter. Detection and tracking stages exchange information in order to reduce the number of false alarms. Promising results are obtained using real data collected at sea with various objects and scenarios.	
Synthetic Aperture Sonar Imaging of Simple Finite Targets	2012	S. G. Kargl, K. L. Williams and E. I. Thorsos	SAS简单目标探测	During the Sediment Acoustics Experiment 2004 (SAX04), a synthetic aperture sonar (SAS) was used to detect simple targets that were either proud or buried below a water-sediment interface, where the nominal grazing angle of incidence from the SAS to the point above a buried target was well below the critical grazing angle. SAS images from other measurements below the critical angle have also produced target detections of buried spheres and finite cylinders. Models and numerical simulations are developed to investigate these proud and buried target detections. For buried targets, the simulations include estimates of reverberation from the rough seafloor, the subcritical penetration through the seafloor, scattering from a target, and propagation back to the SAS. For proud targets, the simulations include the scattering from the target where interaction with the seafloor is included through simple ray models. The simulations used environmental and material parameters measured during SAX04. The environmental measurements include profiles of small-scale surface roughness and superimposed ripple structure. The SAS simulations and model/measurement comparisons over a frequency range of 10-50 kHz further support scattering from sediment ripple structure as the dominant mechanism for subcritical penetration in this range.	
Scattering From Objects at a Water-Sediment Interface: Experiment, High-Speed and High-Fidelity Models, and Physical Insight	2015	S. G. Kargl, A. L. Espana, K. L. Williams, J. L. Kennedy and J. L. Lopes	SAS目标仿真	In March 2010, a series of measurements were conducted to collect synthetic aperture sonar (SAS) data from objects placed on a water-sediment interface. The processed data were compared to two models that included the scattering of an acoustic field from an object on a water-sediment interface. In one model, finite-element (FE) methods were used to predict the scattered pressure near the outer surface of the target, and then this local target response was propagated via a Helmholtz integral to distant observation points. Due to the computational burden of the FE model and Helmholtz integral, a second model utilizing a fast ray model for propagation was developed to track time-of-flight wave packets, which propagate to and subsequently scatter from an object. Rays were associated with image sources and receivers, which account for interactions with the water-sediment interface. Within the ray model, target scattering is reduced to a convolution of a free-field scattering amplitude and an incident acoustic field at the target location. A simulated or measured scattered free-field pressure from a complicated target can be reduced to a (complex) scattering amplitude, and this amplitude then can be used within the ray model via interpolation. The ray model permits the rapid generation of realistic pings suitable for SAS processing and the analysis of acoustic color templates. Results from FE/Helmholtz calculations and FE/ray model calculations are compared to measurements, where the target is a solid aluminum replica of an inert 100-mm unexploded ordnance (UXO).	
FPGA-Based Adaptive Speckle Suppression Filter for Underwater Imaging Sonar	2011	S. Karabchevsky, D. Kahana, O. Ben-Harush and H. Guterman	FLS去斑点噪声	Underwater forward-looking imaging sonar (FLS) is widely used on stationary and moving platforms to overcome underwater visibility problems. The SONAR images are perturbed by a multiplicative noise called speckle, due to the coherent nature of the scattering phenomenon. Speckle reduction filters are necessary to optimize the images' exploitation procedures. The results of speckle filters may vary from one sensor and one wavelength to another; therefore, no generic de-speckling algorithm exists. Several studies have been carried out on speckle noise suppression on sidescan sonar, but the problem of speckle noise suppression for FLS has not yet been covered. A comparison of the most used classical speckle suppression filters as well as advanced wavelet-based ones was carried out. The Frost filter was found to be the most adequate for FLS data, but also the most computationally complex and not suitable for real-time processing. Two novel architectures for real-time and low-power field-programmable gate array (FPGA) implementation of the Frost speckle filter for underwater imaging sonar are presented. The proposed architectures have superior performance and power efficiency compared to standard software implementation.	
USING LOW-COST SIDE-SCAN SONAR FOR BENTHIC MAPPING THROUGHOUT THE LOWER FLINT RIVER, GEORGIA, USA	2013	A. J. Kaeser, T. L. Litts and T. W. Tracy	SSS底质测绘	An efficient, low-cost approach for mapping habitat features in navigable streams is needed to support the research and management of aquatic ecosystems at the landscape level. We developed a method that uses high-resolution (455kHz) side-scan sonar imagery obtained with the inexpensive (similar to$2000) Humminbird (R) Side Imaging system and ArcGIS to produce sonar image maps (SIMs) used to interpret and map habitat features such as substrates and large woody debris, in addition to continuously recording depth along the survey route. This method was recently demonstrated and evaluated in several small streams in southwestern Georgia (30-50m width, 40km mapped). To evaluate the feasibility of this method for mapping substrate and depth in larger rivers and over greater spatial extents, we conducted a sonar survey and generated SIMs for 124km of the lower Flint River (85-140m width). We interpreted the SIMs to digitize and classify substrate and bank boundaries. To assess classification accuracy, we visually inspected substrate at randomly assigned reference locations. A comparison of reference and map data revealed an overall classification accuracy of 84%. These results were consistent with previous findings and indicate that low-cost side-scan sonar is also an effective mapping tool for larger rivers. The sonar survey did, however, result in more missing and unsure substrate data and a lower map accuracy for fine-textured substrates than previously achieved when mapping smaller streams. We found a strong, positive relationship (r2=0.89) between the sonar range and the proportion of unsure substrate in the map, suggesting that a multi-pass, parallel-transect sonar survey could be used to maintain high-image resolution when stream widths exceed 100m and/or obstructions, such as islands, are encountered. Applications for sonar-based habitat maps are widespread and numerous. The ability to produce these maps efficiently at low-cost is within the grasp of researchers and managers alike. Copyright (c) 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.	
Combining pixel and object based image analysis of ultra-high resolution multibeam bathymetry and backscatter for habitat mapping in shallow marine waters	2018	D. Ierodiaconou, A. C. G. Schimel, D. Kennedy, J. Monk, G. Gaylard, M. Young, M. Diesing and A. Rattray	MEBS海底测绘	Habitat mapping data are increasingly being recognised for their importance in underpinning marine spatial planning. The ability to collect ultra-high resolution (cm) multibeam echosounder (MBES) data in shallow waters has facilitated understanding of the fine-scale distribution of benthic habitats in these areas that are often prone to human disturbance. Developing quantitative and objective approaches to integrate MBES data with ground observations for predictive modelling is essential for ensuring repeatability and providing confidence measures for habitat mapping products. Whilst supervised classification approaches are becoming more common, users are often faced with a decision whether to implement a pixel based (PB) or an object based (OB) image analysis approach, with often limited understanding of the potential influence of that decision on final map products and relative importance of data inputs to patterns observed. In this study, we apply an ensemble learning approach capable of integrating PB and OB Image Analysis from ultra-high resolution MBES bathymetry and backscatter data for mapping benthic habitats in Refuge Cove, a temperate coastal embayment in south-east Australia. We demonstrate the relative importance of PB and OB seafloor derivatives for the five broad benthic habitats that dominate the site. We found that OB and PB approaches performed well with differences in classification accuracy but not discernible statistically. However, a model incorporating elements of both approaches proved to be significantly more accurate than OB or PB methods alone and demonstrate the benefits of using MBES bathymetry and backscatter combined for class discrimination.	
Fourier-based Registration for Robust Forward-looking Sonar Mosaicing in Low-visibility Underwater Environments	2015	N. Hurtos, D. Ribas, X. Cufi, Y. Petillot and J. Salvi	FLS拼接	Vehicle operations in underwater environments are often compromised by poor visibility conditions. For instance, the perception range of optical devices is heavily constrained in turbid waters, thus complicating navigation and mapping tasks in environments such as harbors, bays, or rivers. A new generation of high-definition forward-looking sonars providing acoustic imagery at high frame rates has recently emerged as a promising alternative for working under these challenging conditions. However, the characteristics of the sonar data introduce difficulties in image registration, a key step in mosaicing and motion estimation applications. In this work, we propose the use of a Fourier-based registration technique capable of handling the low resolution, noise, and artifacts associated with sonar image formation. When compared to a state-of-the art region-based technique, our approach shows superior performance in the alignment of both consecutive and nonconsecutive views as well as higher robustness in featureless environments. The method is used to compute pose constraints between sonar frames that, integrated inside a global alignment framework, enable the rendering of consistent acoustic mosaics with high detail and increased resolution. An extensive experimental section is reported showing results in relevant field applications, such as ship hull inspection and harbor mapping. (C) 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.	
Real-Time Mosaicing with Two-Dimensional Forward-Looking Sonar		N. Hurtos, S. Nagappa, N. Palomeras and J. Salvi	FLS配准	Forward-looking sonar can be used for underwater mapping when water visibility is poor. The generation of an acoustic mosaic of the environment is of high interest when underwater vehicles are used for surveys or search tasks. Moreover, if the mosaic is generated in real-time it can be used to provide instantaneous location feedback (e.g. to a ROV pilot or to an AUV), to ensure complete coverage of an area or facilitate the immediate location of targets. In this paper, we present an approach for achieving such a real-time mosaicing capability. Our system considers a simplified imaging model and estimates 2D sonar motions from the pairwise registration of sonar frames. The registration is performed by using a Fourier-based technique, avoiding the extraction of features and ensuring a fast implementation. The mosaicing problem is formulated using a pose graph, with the vertices being the sonar image positions and the edges being constraints from the vehicle odometry and the registration of consecutive and non-consecutive frames. The graph is incrementally optimized using the g2o framework and the optimized poses are then used to build the mosaic online. We apply the method on data gathered on real conditions and show that the resulting sonar mosaic closely matches both the offline generated mosaic as well as ground truth measurements while operating under real-time constraints.	
Fourier-based Registrations for Two-Dimensional Forward-Looking Sonar Image Mosaicing		N. Hurtos, X. Cuf, Y. Petillot and J. Salvi	FLS配准	This paper presents a method to build large-scale mosaics adapted to underwater sonar imagery. By assuming a simplified imaging model, we propose to address the registrations between images using Fourier-based methods which, unlike feature-based methods, prove well suited to handle the characteristics of forward-looking sonar images, such as low resolution, noise, occlusions and moving shadows. The registration between spatially and temporally distant images resulting from loop-closing situations or registrations in featureless areas are feasible, overcoming the main difficulties of feature-based methods. The problem is cast as a pose-based graph optimization, taking into account the uncertainties of the pairwise registrations and being able to incorporate navigation information. After the optimization, a consistent mosaic from different tracklines is generated with increased resolution and higher signal-to-noise ratio than the original images, while the vehicle motion in x,y and heading is also estimated.	
A Robust and Fast Method for Sidescan Sonar Image Segmentation Using Nonlocal Despeckling and Active Contour Model	2017	G. Y. Huo, S. X. Yang, Q. W. Li and Y. Zhou	SSS去噪分割	Sidescan sonar image segmentation is a very important issue in underwater object detection and recognition. In this paper, a robust and fast method for sidescan sonar image segmentation is proposed, which deals with both speckle noise and intensity inhomogeneity that may cause considerable difficulties in image segmentation. The proposed method integrates the nonlocal means-based speckle filtering (NLMSF), coarse segmentation using k-means clustering, and fine segmentation using an improved region-scalable fitting (RSF) model. The NLMSF is used before the segmentation to effectively remove speckle noise while preserving meaningful details such as edges and fine features, which can make the segmentation easier and more accurate. After despeckling, a coarse segmentation is obtained by using k-means clustering, which can reduce the number of iterations. In the fine segmentation, to better deal with possible intensity inhomogeneity, an edge-driven constraint is combined with the RSF model, which can not only accelerate the convergence speed but also avoid trapping into local minima. The proposed method has been successfully applied to both noisy and inhomogeneous sonar images. Experimental and comparative results on real and synthetic sonar images demonstrate that the proposed method is robust against noise and intensity inhomogeneity, and is also fast and accurate.	
Repeat-Pass Synthetic Aperture Sonar Micronavigation Using Redundant Phase Center Arrays	2016	A. J. Hunter, S. Dugelay and W. L. J. Fox	SAS水下导航	In this paper, a new algorithm is introduced for high-precision underwater navigation using the coherent echo signals collected during repeat-pass synthetic aperture sonar (SAS) surveys. The algorithm is a generalization of redundant phase center (RPC) micronavigation, expanded to RPCs formed between overlapping pings in repeated passes. For each set of overlapping ping pairs (two intrapass and three interpass), five different RPC arrays can be formed to provide estimates of the vehicle's surge, sway, and yaw. These estimates are used to find a weighted least squares solution for the trajectories of the repeated passes. The algorithm can estimate the relative trajectories to subwavelength precision (on order of millimeters to hundreds of micrometers at typical SAS operating frequencies of hundreds of kilohertz) in a common coordinate frame. This will lead to improved focusing and coregistration for repeat-pass SAS interferometry and is an important step toward repeat-pass bathymetric mapping. The repeat-pass RPC micronavigation algorithm is demonstrated using data collected by the 300-kHz SAS of the NATO Center for Maritime Research and Experimentation (CMRE) Minehunting Unmanned underwater vehicle for Shallow water Covert Littoral Expeditions (MUSCLE).	
Towards Acoustic Structure from Motion for Imaging Sonar		T. A. Huang and M. Kaess	FLS3D重构ASFM	We present a novel approach, entitled acoustic structure from motion (ASFM), for recovering 3D scene structure from multiple 2D sonar images, while at the same time localizing the sonar. Imaging sonar or forward looking sonar (FLS) is commonly used for autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) navigation. An FLS provides bearing and range information to a target, but the elevation of the target is unknown within the sensor's field of view. Hence, current state-of-the-art techniques commonly make a flat surface (ground) assumption so that the FLS data can be used for navigation. Unlike other methods, our solution does not require a flat surface assumption and is capable of utilizing information from many frames, as opposed to pairwise methods that can only gather information from two frames at once. ASFM is inspired by structure from motion (SFM), the problem of recovering 3D structure from multiple camera images, while also recovering the position and orientation from which the images were taken. In this paper, we formulate and evaluate the optimization of several AUV sensor readings of the same scene from different poses, the sonar equivalent of bundle adjustment. We evaluate our approach on both simulated data and FLS sonar data with the assumption that feature extraction and data association have been completed. The acoustic equivalents of those two important features of SFM are left for future work.	
Incremental Data Association for Acoustic Structure from Motion		T. A. Huang and M. Kaess	FLS3D重构ASFM	We provide a novel incremental data association method to complement our previous work on acoustic structure from motion (ASFM), which recovers 3D scene structure from multiple 2D sonar images, while at the same time localizing the sonar. Given point features extracted from multiple overlapping sonar images, our algorithm automatically finds the correspondences between the features. Our data association method uses information about the geometric correlations of the entire set of landmarks to reject spurious measurements or false positives that might otherwise have been accepted. For each new sonar measurement, the algorithm uses a gating procedure to narrow the landmark match search space. Using the pruned surviving candidate correspondences, we identify the correct hypothesis based on a posterior compatibility cost, penalizing for null matches to avoid all measurements being declared new landmarks. Unlike other methods, ASFM does not require any planar scene assumptions and uses constraints from more than two images to increase accuracy in both mapping and localization. We evaluate our algorithm in simulation and demonstrate successful data association results on real sonar images.	
Advanced perception, navigation and planning for autonomous in-water ship hull inspection	2012	F. S. Hover, R. M. Eustice, A. Kim, B. Englot, H. Johannsson, M. Kaess and J. J. Leonard	FLS船体检查	Inspection of ship hulls and marine structures using autonomous underwater vehicles has emerged as a unique and challenging application of robotics. The problem poses rich questions in physical design and operation, perception and navigation, and planning, driven by difficulties arising from the acoustic environment, poor water quality and the highly complex structures to be inspected. In this paper, we develop and apply algorithms for the central navigation and planning problems on ship hulls. These divide into two classes, suitable for the open, forward parts of a typical monohull, and for the complex areas around the shafting, propellers and rudders. On the open hull, we have integrated acoustic and visual mapping processes to achieve closed-loop control relative to features such as weld-lines and biofouling. In the complex area, we implemented new large-scale planning routines so as to achieve full imaging coverage of all the structures, at a high resolution. We demonstrate our approaches in recent operations on naval ships.	
Applying multibeam sonar and mathematical modeling for mapping seabed substrate and biota of offshore shallows	2017	K. Herkul, A. Peterson and S. Paekivi	MBES底质测绘	6 Both basic science and marine spatial planning are in a need of high resolution spatially continuous data on seabed habitats and biota. As conventional point-wise sampling is unable to cover large spatial extents in high detail, it must be supplemented with remote sensing and modeling in order to fulfill the scientific and management needs. The combined use of in situ sampling, sonar scanning, and mathematical modeling is becoming the main method for mapping both abiotic and biotic seabed features. Further development and testing of the methods in varying locations and environmental settings is essential for moving towards unified and generally accepted methodology. To fill the relevant research gap in the Baltic Sea, we used multibeam sonar and mathematical modeling methods generalized additive models (GAM) and random forest (RF) together with underwater video to map seabed substrate and epibenthos of offshore shallows. In addition to testing the general applicability of the proposed complex of techniques, the predictive power of different sonar-based variables and modeling algorithms were tested. Mean depth, followed by mean backscatter, were the most influential variables in most of the models. Generally, mean values of sonar-based variables had higher predictive power than their standard deviations. The predictive accuracy of RF was higher than that of GAM. To conclude, we found the method to be feasible and with predictive accuracy similar to previous studies of sonar-based mapping. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	
AUV SLAM and Experiments Using a Mechanical Scanning Forward-Looking Sonar	2012	B. He, Y. Liang, X. Feng, R. Nian, T. H. Yan, M. H. Li and S. J. Zhang	AUV导航SLAM基于FLS	Navigation technology is one of the most important challenges in the applications of autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) which navigate in the complex undersea environment. The ability of localizing a robot and accurately mapping its surroundings simultaneously, namely the simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) problem, is a key prerequisite of truly autonomous robots. In this paper, a modified-FastSLAM algorithm is proposed and used in the navigation for our C-Ranger research platform, an open-frame AUV. A mechanical scanning imaging sonar is chosen as the active sensor for the AUV. The modified-FastSLAM implements the update relying on the on-board sensors of C-Ranger. On the other hand, the algorithm employs the data association which combines the single particle maximum likelihood method with modified negative evidence method, and uses the rank-based resampling to overcome the particle depletion problem. In order to verify the feasibility of the proposed methods, both simulation experiments and sea trials for C-Ranger are conducted. The experimental results show the modified-FastSLAM employed for the navigation of the C-Ranger AUV is much more effective and accurate compared with the traditional methods.	
Evaluation of Four Supervised Learning Methods for Benthic Habitat Mapping Using Backscatter from Multi-Beam Sonar	2012	R. C. Hasan, D. Ierodiaconou and J. Monk	MBES底质分类	An understanding of the distribution and extent of marine habitats is essential for the implementation of ecosystem-based management strategies. Historically this had been difficult in marine environments until the advancement of acoustic sensors. This study demonstrates the applicability of supervised learning techniques for benthic habitat characterization using angular backscatter response data. With the advancement of multibeam echo-sounder (MBES) technology, full coverage datasets of physical structure over vast regions of the seafloor are now achievable. Supervised learning methods typically applied to terrestrial remote sensing provide a cost-effective approach for habitat characterization in marine systems. However the comparison of the relative performance of different classifiers using acoustic data is limited. Characterization of acoustic backscatter data from MBES using four different supervised learning methods to generate benthic habitat maps is presented. Maximum Likelihood Classifier (MLC), Quick, Unbiased, Efficient Statistical Tree (QUEST), Random Forest (RF) and Support Vector Machine (SVM) were evaluated to classify angular backscatter response into habitat classes using training data acquired from underwater video observations. Results for biota classifications indicated that SVM and RF produced the highest accuracies, followed by QUEST and MLC, respectively. The most important backscatter data were from the moderate incidence angles between 30 degrees and 50 degrees. This study presents initial results for understanding how acoustic backscatter from MBES can be optimized for the characterization of marine benthic biological habitats.	
Challenges in Seafloor Imaging and Mapping With Synthetic Aperture Sonar	2011	R. E. Hansen, H. J. Callow, T. O. Saebo and S. A. V. Synnes	SAS成像和测绘挑战	Synthetic aperture sonar (SAS) is emerging as an imaging technology that can provide centimeter resolution over hundreds-of-meter range on the seafloor. Although the principle of SAS has been known for more than 30 years, SAS systems have only recently become commercially available. The success of SAS is critically dependent on overcoming several challenges related to the ocean environment. The sonar has to be positioned with accuracy better than a fraction of a wavelength along the synthetic aperture. We use the sensor itself for navigation, in combination with aided inertial navigation. The sound velocity has to be accurately estimated for successful focusing of SAS images. We calculate a simple rule of thumb for tolerance and show the effect of incorrect sound velocity. For nonstraight synthetic apertures, the bathymetry must be estimated. We use real aperture interferometry to map the scene before SAS processing. We calculate the required bathymetry accuracy and show the effects of insufficient mapping. Vehicle instability and nonstraight tracks, in combination with insufficient navigation accuracy, can cause grating lobes in the SAS images, which is not common in single-channel synthetic aperture radars. We show example imagery with severe grating lobes. In shallow waters, the acoustic signals will interact with the sea surface, possibly causing multipath. This will reduce the SAS quality. We use coherence to map the signal to multipath and, thereby, the valid sensor range. This paper illustrates the different challenges using examples from the HISAS 1030 interferometric SAS.	
Synthetic Aperture Sonar Technology Review	2013	R. E. Hansen	SAS技术综述	Sonar imaging has numerous applications in the underwater domain. High-resolution sonar images are useful in marine research, underwater construction work, offshore oil and gas, search for objects, and in the military sector. Common in many applications is the desire for higher resolution, better image quality, longer range, and smaller hardware footprint. Synthetic aperture sonar (SAS) technology can improve resolution range substantially compared to traditional technology. Recent developments in SAS make this technology more available now. This paper gives a review of SAS technology and shows example of SAS applications. The paper lists the current state-of-the-art and the future trends of SAS.	
The Dynamics of Coordinated Group Hunting and Collective Information Transfer among Schooling Prey	2012	N. O. Handegard, K. M. Boswell, C. C. Ioannou, S. P. Leblanc, D. B. Tjostheim and I. D. Couzin	声呐观测生物捕食	Predator-prey interactions are vital to the stability of many ecosystems [1]. Yet, few studies have considered how they are mediated due to substantial challenges in quantifying behavior over appropriate temporal and spatial scales. Here, we employ high-resolution sonar imaging to track the motion and interactions among predatory fish and their schooling prey in a natural environment. In particular, we address the relationship between predator attack behavior and the capacity for prey to respond both directly and through collective propagation of changes in velocity by group members [2-6]. To do so, we investigated a large number of attacks and estimated per capita risk during attack and its relation to the size, shape, and internal structure of prey groups. Predators were found to frequently form coordinated hunting groups, with up to five individuals attacking in line formation. Attacks were associated with increased fragmentation and irregularities in the spatial structure of prey groups, features that inhibit collective information transfer among prey. Prey group fragmentation, likely facilitated by predator line formation, increased (estimated) per capita risk of prey, provided prey schools were maintained below a threshold size of approximately 2 m(2). Our results highlight the importance of collective behavior to the strategies employed by both predators and prey under conditions of considerable informational constraints.	
A Real-Time 3-D Underwater Acoustical Imaging System	2014	Y. Q. Han, X. Tian, F. Zhou, R. X. Jiang and Y. W. Chen	实时3D成像系统	Real-time 3-D acoustical imaging technique is a key advance to broaden the scope and enhance the feasibility of underwater missions. In this paper, a real-time 3-D underwater acoustical imaging system to handle the actual tasks under a narrowband excitation is presented. The system consists of three parts: a transmitter, a receiving hydrophone array, and a signal processor. In this system, a distributed and parallel subarray (DPS) beamforming algorithm is proposed to process the acquired signals from a scene placed in the far field. The DPS beamforming algorithm is an approximate method for the sonar signal processing with an advantageous computational efficiency. The direct method (DM) and fast Fourier transform (FFT) beamforming are compared with DPS beamforming for the memory and computational requirements. Based on this algorithm, a prototype was developed, which has been extensively employed in the lake and sea trials. The trials demonstrate that the system can achieve the 3-D imaging of the scene and meet the real-time requirement of the underwater operations.	
Three-dimensional reconstruction of underwater objects using wide-aperture imaging SONAR	2018	T. Guerneve, K. Subr and Y. Petillot	FLS三维物体重建	The estimation of the geometric structure of objects located underwater underpins a plethora of applications such as mapping shipwrecks for archaeology, monitoring the health of coral reefs, detecting faults in offshore oil rigs and pipelines, detection and identification of potential threats on the seabed, etc. Acoustic imaging is the most popular choice for underwater sensing. Underwater exploratory vehicles typically employ wide-aperture Sound Navigation and Ranging (SONAR) imaging sensors. Although their wide aperture enables scouring large volumes of water ahead of them for obstacles, the resulting images produced are blurry due to integration over the aperture. Performing three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction from this blurry data is notoriously difficult. This challenging inverse problem is further exacerbated by the presence of speckle noise and reverberations. The state-of-the-art methods in 3D reconstruction from sonar either require bulky and expensive matrix-arrays of sonar sensors or additional narrow-aperture sensors. Due to its low footprint, the latter induces gaps between reconstructed scans. Avoiding such gaps requires slow and cumbersome scanning by the vehicles that carry the scanners. In this paper, we present two reconstruction methods enabling on-site 3D reconstruction from imaging sonars of any aperture. The first of these presents an elegant linear formulation of the problem, as a blind deconvolution with a spatially varying kernel. The second method is a simple algorithmic approach for approximate reconstruction, using a nonlinear formulation. We demonstrate that our simple approximation algorithms perform 3D reconstruction directly from the data recorded by wide-aperture systems, thus eliminating the need for multiple sensors to be mounted on underwater vehicles for this purpose. Additionally, we observe that the wide aperture may be exploited to improve the coverage of the reconstructed samples (on the scanned object's surface). We demonstrate the efficacy of our algorithms on simulated as well as real data acquired using two sensors, and we compare our work to the state of the art in sonar reconstruction. Finally, we show the employability of our reconstruction methods on field data gathered by an autonomous underwater vehicle.	
Multibeam sonar (DIDSON) assessment of American shad (Alosa sapidissima) approaching a hydroelectric dam	2014	A. B. Grote, M. M. Bailey, J. D. Zydlewski and J. E. Hightower	DIDSON探鱼	We investigated the fish community approaching the Veazie Dam on the Penobscot River, Maine, prior to implementation of a major dam removal and river restoration project. Multibeam sonar (dual-frequency identification sonar, DIDSON) surveys were conducted continuously at the fishway entrance from May to July in 2011. A 5% subsample of DIDSON data contained 43 793 fish targets, the majority of which were of Excellent (15.7%) or Good (73.01%) observation quality. Excellent quality DIDSON targets (n = 6876) were apportioned by species using a Bayesian mixture model based on four known fork length distributions (river herring (alewife, Alosa psuedoharengus, and blueback herring, Alosa aestivalis), American shad, Alosa sapidissima) and two size classes (one sea-winter and multi-sea-winter) of Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar). 76.2% of targets were assigned to the American shad distribution; Atlantic salmon accounted for 15.64%, and river herring 8.16% of observed targets. Shad-sized (99.0%) and salmon-sized (99.3%) targets approached the fishway almost exclusively during the day, whereas river herring-sized targets were observed both during the day (51.1%) and at night (48.9%). This approach demonstrates how multibeam sonar imaging can be used to evaluate community composition and species-specific movement patterns in systems where there is little overlap in the length distributions of target species.	
Evaluation of seabed mapping methods for fine-scale classification of extremely shallow benthic habitats - Application to the Venice Lagoon, Italy	2016	G. M. Gavazzi, F. Madricardo, L. Janowski, A. Kruss, P. Blondel, M. Sigovini and F. Foglini	综述MBES底质分类	Recent technological developments of multibeam echosounder systems (MBES) allow mapping of benthic habitats with unprecedented detail. MBES can now be employed in extremely shallow waters, challenging data acquisition (as these instruments were often designed for deeper waters) and data interpretation (honed on datasets with resolution sometimes orders of magnitude lower). With extremely high-resolution bathymetry and co-located backscatter data, it is now possible to map the spatial distribution of fine scale benthic habitats, even identifying the acoustic signatures of single sponges. In this context, it is necessary to understand which of the commonly used segmentation methods is best suited to account for such level of detail. At the same time, new sampling protocols for precisely geo-referenced ground truth data need to be developed to validate the benthic environmental classification. This study focuses on a dataset collected in a shallow (2-10 m deep) tidal channel of the Lagoon of Venice, Italy. Using 0.05-m and 0.2-m raster grids, we compared a range of classifications, both pixel-based and object-based approaches, including manual, Maximum Likelihood Classifier, Jenks Optimization clustering, textural analysis and Object Based Image Analysis. Through a comprehensive and accurately geo-referenced ground truth dataset, we were able to identify five different classes of the substrate composition, including sponges, mixed submerged aquatic vegetation, mixed detritic bottom (fine and coarse) and unconsolidated bare sediment. We computed estimates of accuracy (namely Overall, User, Producer Accuracies and the Kappa statistic) by cross tabulating predicted and reference instances. Overall, pixel based segmentations produced the highest accuracies and the accuracy assessment is strongly dependent on the number of classes chosen for the thematic output. Tidal channels in the Venice Lagoon are extremely important in terms of habitats and sediment distribution, particularly within the context of the new tidal barrier being built. However, they had remained largely unexplored until now, because of the surveying challenges. The application of this remote sensing approach, combined with targeted sampling, opens a new perspective in the monitoring of benthic habitats in view of a knowledge-based management of natural resources in shallow coastal areas. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	
Coverage Path Planning with Real-time Replanning and Surface Reconstruction for Inspection of Three-dimensional Underwater Structures using Autonomous Underwater Vehicles	2015	E. Galceran, R. Campos, N. Palomeras, D. Ribas, M. Carreras and P. Ridao	AUV水下SLAM	We present a novel method for planning coverage paths for inspecting complex structures on the ocean floor using an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV). Our method initially uses a 2.5-dimensional (2.5D) prior bathymetric map to plan a nominal coverage path that allows the AUV to pass its sensors over all points on the target area. The nominal path uses a standard mowing-the-lawn pattern in effectively planar regions, while in regions with substantial 3D relief it follows horizontal contours of the terrain at a given offset distance. We then go beyond previous approaches in the literature by considering the vehicle's state uncertainty rather than relying on the unrealistic assumption of an idealized path execution. Toward that end, we present a replanning algorithm based on a stochastic trajectory optimization that reshapes the nominal path to cope with the actual target structure perceived in situ. The replanning algorithm runs onboard the AUV in real time during the inspection mission, adapting the path according to the measurements provided by the vehicle's range-sensing sonars. Furthermore, we propose a pipeline of state-of-the-art surface reconstruction techniques we apply to the data acquired by the AUV to obtain 3D models of the inspected structures that show the benefits of our planning method for 3D mapping. We demonstrate the efficacy of our method in experiments at sea using the GIRONA 500 AUV, where we cover part of a breakwater structure in a harbor and an underwater boulder rising from 40m up to 27m depth. (C) 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.	
Unified Design of a Feature-Based ADAC System for Mine Hunting Using Synthetic Aperture Sonar	2014	R. Fandos, A. M. Zoubir and K. Siantidis	SAS探雷	A system for automatic detection and classification (ADAC) of underwater objects for mine hunting applications is proposed. The system consists of three steps: segmentation, feature extraction, and classification. This paper focuses on two design issues: the selection of the optimal classifier and the selection of the optimal feature subset. Often, the comparison of classification systems is based on a pre-selected feature set. However, a different subset might yield a different ranking. We apply a resampling algorithm that assesses the classifier performance without constraints to any specific feature subset. Once a classifier is chosen, a feature selection algorithm estimates the optimal feature subset. We propose a novel extension of the sequential forward selection (SFS) and the sequential forward floating selection (SFFS) methods, which mitigates their main limitations, i.e., the nesting problem. Instead of keeping the best alternative at each iteration, a set of D options is stored. The performance of the so-called D-SFS and D-SFFS is tested on simulated and real data, significantly outperforming the standard algorithms. The proposed methods are also used for designing an ADAC system for mine hunting based on two extensive databases of synthetic aperture sonar images.	
Optimal Feature Set for Automatic Detection and Classification of Underwater Objects in SAS Images	2011	R. Fandos and A. M. Zoubir	SAS水雷检测和分类	The problem of automatic detection and classification for mine hunting applications is addressed. We propose a set of algorithms which are tested using a large database of real synthetic aperture sonar (SAS) images. The highlights and shadows of the objects in an SAS image are segmented using both a Markovian algorithm and the active contours algorithm. The comparison of both segmentation results is used as a feature for classification. In addition, other features are considered. These include geometrical shape descriptors, not only of the shadow region, but also of the object highlight, which demonstrates a significant improvement of the performance. Furthermore, a novel set of features based on the image statistics is described. Finally, we propose an optimal feature set that leads to the best classification results for the available database.	
Efficient AUV Navigation Fusing Acoustic Ranging and Side-scan Sonar		M. F. Fallon, M. Kaess, H. Johannsson and J. J. Leonard	AUV导航基于SSS	This paper presents an on-line nonlinear least squares algorithm for multi-sensor autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) navigation. The approach integrates the global constraints of range to and GPS position of a surface vehicle or buoy communicated via acoustic modems and relative pose constraints arising from targets detected in side-scan sonar images. The approach utilizes an efficient optimization algorithm, iSAM, which allows for consistent on-line estimation of the entire set of trajectory constraints. The optimized trajectory can then be used to more accurately navigate the AUV, to extend mission duration, and to avoid GPS surfacing. As iSAM provides efficient access to the marginal covariances of previously observed features, automatic data association is greatly simplified-particularly in sparse marine environments. A key feature of our approach is its intended scalability to single surface sensor (a vehicle or buoy) broadcasting its GPS position and simultaneous one-way travel time range (OWTT) to multiple AUVs. We discuss why our approach is scalable as well as robust to modem transmission failure. Results are provided for an ocean experiment using a Hydroid REMUS 100 AUV co-operating with one of two craft: an autonomous surface vehicle (ASV) and a manned support vessel. During these experiments the ranging portion of the algorithm ran online on-board the AUV. Extension of the paradigm to multiple missions via the optimization of successive survey missions (and the resultant sonar mosaics) is also demonstrated.	
Relocating Underwater Features Autonomously Using Sonar-Based SLAM	2013	M. F. Fallon, J. Folkesson, H. McClelland and J. J. Leonard	AUV导航SLAM基于FLS	This paper describes a system for reacquiring features of interest in a shallow-water ocean environment, using autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) equipped with low-cost sonar and navigation sensors. In performing mine countermeasures, it is critical to enable AUVs to navigate accurately to previously mapped objects of interest in the water column or on the seabed, for further assessment or remediation. An important aspect of the overall system design is to keep the size and cost of the reacquisition vehicle as low as possible, as it may potentially be destroyed in the reacquisition mission. This low-cost requirement prevents the use of sophisticated AUV navigation sensors, such as a Doppler velocity log (DVL) or an inertial navigation system (INS). Our system instead uses the Proviewer 900-kHz imaging sonar from Blueview Technologies, which produces forward-looking sonar (FLS) images at ranges up to 40 m at approximately 4 Hz. In large volumes, it is hoped that this sensor can be manufactured at low cost. Our approach uses a novel simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) algorithm that detects and tracks features in the FLS images to renavigate to a previously mapped target. This feature-based navigation (FBN) system incorporates a number of recent advances in pose graph optimization algorithms for SLAM. The system has undergone extensive field testing over a period of more than four years, demonstrating the potential for the use of this new approach for feature reacquisition. In this report, we review the methodologies and components of the FBN system, describe the system's technological features, review the performance of the system in a series of extensive in-water field tests, and highlight issues for future research.	
Adaptive behavior for texture discrimination by the free-flying big brown bat, Eptesicus fuscus	2011	B. Falk, T. Williams, M. Aytekin and C. F. Moss	仿生蝙蝠定位策略	This study examined behavioral strategies for texture discrimination by echolocation in free-flying bats. Big brown bats, Eptesicus fuscus, were trained to discriminate a smooth 16 mm diameter object (S+) from a size-matched textured object (S-), both of which were tethered in random locations in a flight room. The bat's three-dimensional flight path was reconstructed using stereo images from high-speed video recordings, and the bat's sonar vocalizations were recorded for each trial and analyzed off-line. A microphone array permitted reconstruction of the sonar beam pattern, allowing us to study the bat's directional gaze and inspection of the objects. Bats learned the discrimination, but performance varied with S-. In acoustic studies of the objects, the S+ and S- stimuli were ensonified with frequency-modulated sonar pulses. Mean intensity differences between S+ and S- were within 4 dB. Performance data, combined with analyses of echo recordings, suggest that the big brown bat listens to changes in sound spectra from echo to echo to discriminate between objects. Bats adapted their sonar calls as they inspected the stimuli, and their sonar behavior resembled that of animals foraging for insects. Analysis of sonar beam-directing behavior in certain trials clearly showed that the bat sequentially inspected S+ and S-.	
Position Error Correction for an Autonomous Underwater Vehicle Inertial Navigation System (INS) Using a Particle Filter	2012	G. T. Donovan	AUV导航基于MBES	This paper presents comprehensive testing and analysis of a particle filter (PF) framework for real-time terrain navigation on an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV). The goal is to obtain georeferenced localization for an AUV navigation system using reference bathymetry maps and bathymetric measurements in lieu of Global Positioning System (GPS) updates or acoustic localization methods such as long baseline (LBL). The algorithms are tested using navigation and sensor data collected during a long-distance run of the midsize autonomous reconfigurable vehicle (MARV) AUV, during which the Inertial Navigation System (INS) accumulated significant horizontal position error (>100 m). Run data sets over areas of both high and low bathymetric relief are used to compare performance with different altitude sensors, including multibeam and single-beam sonar, and four-beam Doppler velocity logger (DVL) sonar. A comparison of established techniques for dealing with tide levels is also presented. The technique of adding a third dimension to the PF state vector to compensate for changing water levels allowed the estimator to work consistently in areas of low bathymetric relief, where relative terrain profiling methods broke down and even slight errors in tide prediction models otherwise caused significant position errors. The effects of decreased vertical resolution and accuracy of the reference map is also investigated. To address problems of insufficient sample size, a novel PF resampling technique is presented in which jittering noise added to duplicate samples is scaled based on the particle cloud volume. This technique allows the PF to consistently recover a position fix over a search area of several kilometers without needing to significantly increase the number of particles used.	
Image-based seabed classification: what can we learn from terrestrial remote sensing?	2016	M. Diesing, P. Mitchell and D. Stephens	综述海底地质分类	Maps that depict the distribution of substrate, habitat or biotope types on the seabed are in increasing demand by marine ecologists and spatial planners, underpinning decision making in relation to marine spatial planning and marine protected area network design. Yet, the science discipline of image-based seabed mapping has not fully matured and rapid progress is needed to improve the reliability and accuracy of maps. To speed up the process we have conducted a literature review of common practices in terrestrial image classification based on remote sensing data, a related discipline, albeit with a larger scientific community and longer history. We identified the following key elements of a mapping workflow: (i) Data pre-processing, (ii) Feature extraction, (iii) Feature selection, (iv) Classification, (v) Post-classification enhancements, and (vi) Evaluation of classification performance. Insights gained from the review served as a baseline against which recent seabed mapping studies were compared. In this way we identified knowledge gaps and propose modifications to the mapping workflow. A main concern in current seabed mapping practice is that a large amount of often correlated predictor features is extracted, creating a multidimensional feature space. To effectively fill this space with an appropriate amount of training samples is likely to be impossible. Hence, it is necessary to reduce the dimensionality of the feature space via data transformation [e.g. principal component analysis (PCA)] or feature selection and remove correlated features. We propose to make dimensionality reduction an integral part of any mapping workflow. We also suggest to adopt recommendations for accuracy assessment originally drawn up for terrestrial land cover mapping. These include the publication of two or more measures of accuracy including overall and class-specific metrics, publication of associated confidence limits and the provision of the error matrix.	
Mapping seabed sediments: Comparison of manual, geostatistical, object-based image analysis and machine learning approaches	2014	M. Diesing, S. L. Green, D. Stephens, R. M. Lark, H. A. Stewart and D. Dove	MBES海底测绘分类	Marine spatial planning and conservation need underpinning with sufficiently detailed and accurate seabed substrate and habitat maps. Although multibeam echosounders enable us to map the seabed with high resolution and spatial accuracy, there is still a lack of fit-for-purpose seabed maps. This is due to the high costs involved in carrying out systematic seabed mapping programmes and the fact that the development of validated, repeatable, quantitative and objective methods of swath acoustic data interpretation is still in its infancy. We compared a wide spectrum of approaches including manual interpretation, geostatistics, object-based image analysis and machine-learning to gain further insights into the accuracy and comparability of acoustic data interpretation approaches based on multibeam echosounder data (bathymetry, backscatter and derivatives) and seabed samples with the aim to derive seabed substrate maps. Sample data were split into a training and validation data set to allow us to carry out an accuracy assessment. Overall thematic classification accuracy ranged from 67% to 76% and Cohen's kappa varied between 0.34 and 0.52. However, these differences were not statistically significant at the 5% level. Misclassifications were mainly associated with uncommon classes, which were rarely sampled. Map outputs were between 68% and 87% identical. To improve classification accuracy in seabed mapping, we suggest that more studies on the effects of factors affecting the classification performance as well as comparative studies testing the performance of different approaches need to be carried out with a view to developing guidelines for selecting an appropriate method for a given dataset. In the meantime, classification accuracy might be improved by combining different techniques to hybrid approaches and multi-method ensembles. Crown Copyright (C) 2014 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	
Sonar-Based Detection and Tracking of a Diver for Underwater Human-Robot Interaction Scenarios		K. J. DeMarco, M. E. West and A. M. Howard	FLS潜水员追踪	An underwater robotic assistant could help a human diver by illuminating work areas, fetching tools from the surface, or monitoring the diver's activity for abnormal behavior. However, in order for basic Underwater Human-Robot Interaction (UHRI) to be successful, the robotic assistant has to first be able to detect and track the diver. This paper discusses the detection and tracking of a diver with a high-frequency forward-looking sonar. The first step in the diver detection involves utilizing classical 2D image processing techniques to segment moving objects in the sonar image. The moving objects are then passed through a blob detection algorithm, and then the blob clusters are processed by the cluster classification process. Cluster classification is accomplished by matching observed cluster trajectories with trained Hidden Markov Models (HMM), which results in a cluster being classified as either a diver or clutter. Real-world results show that a moving diver can be autonomously distinguished from stationary objects in a noisy sonar image and tracked.	
Optimizing Constrained Search Patterns for Remote Mine-Hunting Vehicles	2012	M. Couillard, J. Fawcett and M. Davison	SSS探雷	When conducting remote mine-hunting operations with a sidescan-sonar-equipped vehicle, a lawn-mowing search pattern is standard if no prior information on potential target locations is available. Upon completion of this initial search, a list of contacts is obtained. The overall classification performance can be significantly improved by revisiting these contacts to collect additional looks. This paper provides, for the first time, a link between the recent literature which finds optimal secondary looks and optimal route planning software. Automated planning algorithms are needed to generate multiaspect routes to improve the performance of mine-hunting systems and increase the capability of navies to efficiently clear potential mine fields. This paper introduces two new numerical techniques designed to enable current remote mine-hunting systems to achieve secondary paths minimizing the total distance to be traveled and satisfying all motion and imaging constraints. The first "local" approach is based on a sequential algorithm dealing with more tractable subproblems, while the second is "global" and based on simulated annealing. These numerical techniques are applied to two test sites created for the Mongoose sea trial held at the 2007 Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (AUV) Fest, Panama City, FL. Highly satisfactory planning solutions are obtained.	
Real-time sonar image enhancement for AUV-based acoustic vision	2015	H. Cho and S. C. Yu	FLS去斑点噪声	Sonar imaging is considered the only feasible sensing solution for underwater investigations by autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) in zero-visibility water conditions. State-of-the-art forward-looking imaging sonars can acquire high resolution images at high frame rates, making the acquired images nearly similar to video images acquired using optical cameras. However, the sonar images are corrupted with speckle noise. In this paper, a speckle noise reduction algorithm is proposed for AUV operation. Unlike the conventional algorithms, the proposed algorithm is adequate for real-time treatment. In order to evaluate the performance of the proposed algorithm, an experiment was conducted by using a forward-looking imaging sonar. Based on the experimental results, it was confirmed that the proposed algorithm can effectively reduce the noise. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	
AUV-Based Underwater 3-D Point Cloud Generation Using Acoustic Lens-Based Multibeam Sonar	2018	H. Cho, B. Kim and S. C. Yu	FLS三维海底重建	This study proposes a 3-D seafloor scanning method using sonar images obtained by an acoustic lens-based multibeam sonar (ALMS). ALMS is a forward-looking sonar and is generally used to implement real-time acoustic vision for autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs). ALMS is originally not a 3-D sonar, and elevation information is eliminated when the 3-D world is mapped to the 2-D sonar image. The proposed method provides a unique analysis of sonar image geometry for extracting the missing elevation information. Different from conventional 3-D reconstruction methods, the proposed method can be continuously executed regardless of the existence of any remarkable features in the sonar image, which means that the proposed method can scan the seafloor during a full-time AUV operation. Once the 3-D seafloor data are obtained, the height of the seafloor can be used for the detection of suspected objects. Therefore, the proposed method enables long-range seafloor object detection, triggering succeeding processes involving the AUV approaching the detected object, and the start of a detailed investigation at a close range.	
Robust Sonar-Based Underwater Object Recognition Against Angle-of-View Variation	2016	H. Cho, J. Gu and S. C. Yu	FLS仿真目标检测	Underwater object recognition based on deployed mobile nodes (underwater vehicles) is difficult, because the shape of an object in a sonar image is significantly changed depending on the direction from which the object is approached. The approaching directions of deployed mobile nodes cannot be predicted in advance. To solve the problem, the conventional underwater recognition algorithms use realistic template images generated by sonar image simulators, and compare the template images to the actual sonar image. However, the realistic sonar image simulation is computationally complex, and the comparison requires some preprocessing methods, such as image segmentation. To solve the problem, this paper proposes a sonar image simulator-based underwater object recognition algorithm. The proposed algorithms that is motivated by the generation mechanism of a sonar image can directly compare the actual sonar image and the simulation image generated by a simple sonar image simulator.	
Acoustic beam profile-based rapid underwater object detection for an imaging sonar	2015	H. Cho, J. Gu, H. Joe, A. Asada and S. C. Yu	FLS水下结构定位	In sonar applications, the ability to locate underwater structures such as pipelines and a wreckage of submerged airplane is important. To investigate extensive sections of the seabed within a limited time period, the scanning speed and the reliability of object detection alarms are the most critical factors for finding objects. In this paper, we propose a method to provide an automatic detection alarm indicating the presence of suspected underwater objects using high-speed imaging sonar. The proposed method is based on the cross-correlations between two successive acoustic beam profiles of imaging sonar. The alarm signal alerts human operators or automatic underwater vehicles to suspected objects, which may be a part of or all of the target object. Using this signal as a trigger, the object can then be examined in more detail to determine whether it is the target. We verified the feasibility of the proposed method by indoor and field experiments.	
Optimized Simulated Annealing Algorithm for Thinning and Weighting Large Planar Arrays in Both Far-Field and Near-Field	2011	P. Chen, Y. Y. Zheng and W. Zhu	3D成像优化	In this paper, an optimized simulated annealing algorithm is proposed for thinning and weighting large planar arrays in both far-field and near-field of underwater 3-D sonar imaging systems. This optimized algorithm is designed for the large planar array with a fixed sidelobe peak and a fixed current taper ratio under a narrowband excitation. It applies the approximation for time delay in the near-field beam pattern, and extends the simulated annealing algorithm to both far-field and near-field by defining a new "energy" function. One example of large planar array was used to evaluate the accuracy and efficiency of the optimized method.	
Intensity-Based Block Matching Algorithm for Mosaicing Sonar Images	2011	C. Chailloux, J. M. Le Caillec, D. Gueriot and B. Zerr	SSS拼接	Registering sonar images to correctly describe seafloors and explain wide geological or biological phenomena is often achieved manually requiring significant human resources. This paper proposes an automatic intensity-based registration algorithm that relies on the optimization of a new similarity measure (SM), within a multiresolution block matching framework. Indeed, several SMs have been evaluated and ranked on real sidescan sonar data to determine the most relevant intensity dependencies between images for matching purposes. Correlation ratio (CR) and mutual information (MI) are then selected and because of their complementary behaviors, merged in a new SM (MI&CR), which performs better than CR or MI alone, to determine robust matching blocks between images. Thus, the proposed two-step registration algorithm uses MI&CR to match two sonar images: a single rigid translation globally matches the images, then a field of locally applied translations is computed for adjusting the final registration to remaining local distortions. Actual processing time can then be tuned according to the required registration accuracy. Due to a survey standard operating mode, only same-survey overlapping images are considered as candidates for matching. Moreover, building mosaics from registered images assumes a flat sea bottom as no global elevation information is provided by sidescan sonar images.	
A novel GPU-based sonar simulator for real-time applications	2017	R. Cerqueira, T. Trocoli, G. Neves, S. Joyeux, J. Albiez and L. Oliveira	FLS仿真	Mainly when applied in the underwater environment, sonar simulation requires great computational effort due to the complexity of acoustic physics. Simulation of sonar operation allows evaluating algorithms and control systems without going to the real underwater environment; that reduces the costs and risks of in-field experiments. This paper tackles with the problem of real-time underwater imaging sonar simulation by using the OpenGL shading language chain on GPU. Our proposed system is able to simulate two main types of acoustic devices: mechanical scanning imaging sonars and forward-looking sonars. The underwater scenario simulation is performed based on three frameworks: (i) OpenSceneGraph reproduces the ocean visual effects, (ii) Gazebo deals with physical forces, and (iii) the Robot Construction Kit controls the sonar in underwater environments. Our system exploits the rasterization pipeline in order to simulate the sonar devices, which are simulated by means of three parameters: the pulse distance, the echo intensity and the sonar field-of-view, being all calculated over observable objects shapes in the 3D rendered scene. Sonar-intrinsic operational parameters, speckle noise and object material properties are also considered as part of the acoustic image. Our evaluation demonstrated that the proposed system is able to operate close to or faster than the real-world devices. Also, our method generates visually realistic sonar images when compared with real-world sonar images of the same scenes. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	
A Novel Method for Sidescan Sonar Image Segmentation	2011	T. Celik and T. Tjahjadi	侧扫分割	In this paper, we propose a novel unsupervised algorithm for segmenting sidescan sonar images of seafloor. The proposed algorithm does not make any a priori assumption on the nature of the input sidescan sonar image. The algorithm first constructs a multiresolution representation of the input image using the forward and inverse undecimated discrete wavelet transform (UDWT). A feature vector is then extracted for each pixel using both intra-resolution and inter-resolution data. The dimensionality of each feature vector is reduced using principal component analysis (PCA). The feature vectors are then clustered into disjoint clusters using k-means clustering. The number of clusters is estimated automatically. Experimental results on real sonar images confirm the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm.	
Shallow water benthic imaging and substrate characterization using recreational-grade sidescan-sonar	2017	D. Buscombe	SSS底质分类	In recent years, lightweight, inexpensive, vessel-mounted 'recreational grade' sonar systems have rapidly grown in popularity among aquatic scientists, for swath imaging of benthic substrates. To promote an ongoing 'democratization' of acoustical imaging of shallow water environments, methods to carry out geometric and radiometric correction and georectification of sonar echograms are presented, based on simplified models for sonar-target geometry and acoustic backscattering and attenuation in shallow water. Procedures are described for automated removal of the acoustic shadows, identification of bed water interface for situations when the water is too turbid or turbulent for reliable depth echosounding, and for automated bed substrate classification based on singlebeam full-waveform analysis. These methods are encoded in an open-source and freely-available software package, which should further facilitate use of recreational-grade sidescan sonar, in a fully automated and objective manner. The sequential correction, mapping, and analysis steps are demonstrated using a data set from a shallow freshwater environment. Published by Elsevier Ltd.	
The UspIC: Performing Scan Matching Localization Using an Imaging Sonar	2012	A. Burguera, Y. Gonzalez and G. Oliver	MSIS检测定位UUV	This paper presents a novel approach to localize an underwater mobile robot based on scan matching using a Mechanically Scanned Imaging Sonar (MSIS). When used to perform scan matching, this sensor presents some problems such as significant uncertainty in the measurements or large scan times, which lead to a motion induced distortion. This paper presents the uspIC, which deals with these problems by adopting a probabilistic scan matching strategy and by defining a method to strongly alleviate the motion induced distortion. Experimental results evaluating our approach and comparing it to previously existing methods are provided.	
Spectral registration of noisy sonar data for underwater 3D mapping	2011	H. Bulow and A. Birk	3D测绘配准	3D mapping is very challenging in the underwater domain, especially due to the lack of high resolution, low noise sensors. A new spectral registration method is presented that can determine the spatial 6 DOF transformation between pairs of very noisy 3D scans with only partial overlap. The approach is hence suited to cope with sonar as the predominant underwater sensor. The spectral registration method is based on Phase Only Matched Filtering (POMF) on non-trivially resampled spectra of the 3D data. Two extensive sets of experiments are presented. First, evaluations with simulated data are done where the type and amount of noise can be controlled and the ground truth transformations between scans are known. Second, real world data from a Tritech Eclipse sonar is used. Concretely, 18 sonar scans of a large structure in form of a flood gate and a lock in the river Lesum in Bremen are used for 3D mapping. In doing so, the spectral registration method is compared to two other methods suited for noisy 3D registrations, namely Iterative Closest Point (ICP) and plane-based registration. It is shown that the spectral registration method performs very well in terms of the resulting 3D map as well as its run-times.	
Image-based classification of multibeam sonar backscatter data for objective surficial sediment mapping of Georges Bank, Canada	2011	C. J. Brown, B. J. Todd, V. E. Kostylev and R. A. Pickrill	MBES底质分类	Developments in acoustic survey techniques, in particular multibeam sonar, have revolutionised the way we are able to image, map and understand the seabed environment. It is now cost effective to image large areas of the seafloor using these techniques, and the information from such surveys provides base line data from which thematic maps of the seabed environment, including maps of surficial geology, can be derived when interpreted in conjunction with in-situ ground truthing data. Traditional methods for the interpretation of acoustic backscatter rely on experienced interpretation by eye of grey-scale images produced from the data. However, interpretation of data can be subjective, and new developments in semi-automated backscatter classification software offer an objective method of segmentation of acoustic backscatter data into acoustically similar regions, but are not yet well tested or accepted. A large multibeam sonar data set from Georges Bank, Canada, was classified using the backscatter classification software, QTC-Multiview. Data from 4800 km(2) of seabed were classified and results were compared with 110 ground truthing stations to assess the performance of the classification for geological discrimination. The relationship between backscatter metrics derived from the classification software and benthic geological characteristics were explored using statistical methods. Results suggest that image-based backscatter classification shows considerable promise for interpretation of multibeam sonar data for the production of geological maps. Crown Copyright (C) 2010 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	
Benthic habitat mapping: A review of progress towards improved understanding of the spatial ecology of the seafloor using acoustic techniques	2011	C. J. Brown, S. J. Smith, P. Lawton and J. T. Anderson	综述海底栖息地测绘	This review examines the various strategies and methods used to produce benthic habitat maps using acoustic remote sensing techniques, coupled with in situ sampling. The applications of three acoustic survey techniques are examined in detail: single-beam acoustic ground discrimination systems, sidescan sonar systems, and multi-beam echo sounders. Over the past decade we have witnessed the nascence of the field of benthic habitat mapping and, on the evidence of the literature reviewed in this paper, have seen a rapid evolution in the level of sophistication in our ability to image and thus map seafloor habitats. As acoustic survey tools have become ever more complex, new methods have been tested to segment, classify and combine these data with biological ground truth sample data. Although the specific methods used to derive habitat maps vary considerably, the review indicates that studies can generally be categorized into one of three over-arching strategies; 1) Abiotic surrogate mapping; 2) Assemble first, predict later (unsupervised classification); 3) Predict first, assemble later (supervised classification). Whilst there is still no widely accepted agreement on the best way to produce benthic habitat maps, all three strategies provide valuable map resources to support management objectives. Whilst there is still considerable work to be done before we can answer many of the outstanding technological, methodological, ecological and theoretical questions that have been raised here, the review concludes that the advent of spatial ecological studies founded on high-resolution environmental data sets will undoubtedly help us to examine patterns in community and species distributions. This is a vital first step in unraveling ecological complexities and thus providing improved spatial information for management of marine systems. Crown Copyright (C) 2011 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	
Multiple methods, maps, and management applications: Purpose made seafloor maps in support of ocean management	2012	C. J. Brown, J. A. Sameoto and S. J. Smith	MBES海底测绘	The establishment of multibeam echosounders (MBES) as a mainstream tool in ocean mapping has facilitated integrative approaches toward nautical charting, benthic habitat mapping, and seafloor geotechnical surveys. The inherent bathymetric and backscatter information generated by MBES enables marine scientists to present highly accurate bathymetric data with a spatial resolution closely matching that of terrestrial mapping. Furthermore, developments in data collection and processing of MBES backscatter, combined with the quality of the co-registered depth information, have resulted in the increasing preferential use of multibeam technology over conventional sidescan sonar for the production of benthic habitat maps. A range of post-processing approaches can generate customized map products to meet multiple ocean management needs, thus extracting maximum value from a single survey data set. Based on recent studies over German Bank off SW Nova Scotia, Canada, we show how primary MBES bathymetric and backscatter data, along with supplementary data (i.e. in situ video and stills), were processed using a variety of methods to generate a series of maps. Methods conventionally used for classification of multi-spectral data were tested for classification of the MBES data set to produce a map summarizing broad bio-physical characteristics of the seafloor (i.e. a benthoscape map), which is of value for use in many aspects of marine spatial planning. A species-specific habitat map for the sea scallop Placopecten magellanicus was also generated from the MBES data by applying a Species Distribution Modeling (SDM) method to spatially predict habitat suitability, which offers tremendous promise for use in fisheries management. In addition, we explore the challenges of incorporating benthic community data into maps based on species information derived from a large number of seafloor photographs. Through the process of applying multiple methods to generate multiple maps for management applications, we demonstrate the efficient use of survey data sets to maximize the benefit to a wide number of potential end users, and to facilitate the move toward an ecosystem-based approach to management. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	
Improving Sonar Performance in Shallow Water Using Adaptive Beamforming	2013	A. E. A. Blomberg, A. Austeng, R. E. Hansen and S. A. V. Synnes	浅水SAS自适应BF	Multipath propagation degrades the performance of active, bottom-imaging sonars in shallow-water environments. One way to avoid multipath interference is to use a vertical array with a narrow enough angular response to separate the direct bottom return from the multipath. However, this requires a large array and is often infeasible for practical reasons. In this study, we focus on the use of adaptive beamforming on the receiver side to reduce multipath interference and hence improve the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). Using a small, dense receiver array, we apply classical and adaptive beamformers to real data collected by the NATO Undersea Research Centre in a shallow-water environment. Our results show that the adaptive minimum variance distortionless response (MVDR) beamformer offers an improvement in the estimated SNR compared to a conventional beamformer in most cases. However, the MVDR beamformer is suboptimal when the receiver consists of only a few elements. We propose using the low complexity adaptive (LCA) beamformer, which is based on the same optimization criteria as theMVDR beamformer, but is robust in a coherent environment without the need for spatial smoothing. For two to 4-element receivers, we observe an improvement of about 0.5-2.5 dB in the estimated SNR when using the LCA beamformer. In cases where the model indicates that the direct bottom return and the dominating multipath arrive from nearly the same angle, little or no improvement is observed. This is typically the case for first-or second-order multipaths reflected off the seafloor toward the receiver. The results from this study also show that with a small vertical array, a narrow mainlobe width is more important than low sidelobe levels, in terms of maximizing the SNR. Consequently, an unweighted conventional beamformer performs better than a conventional beamformer with a Hanning window applied for sidelobe suppression.	
Bats Use Echo Harmonic Structure to Distinguish Their Targets from Background Clutter	2011	M. E. Bates, J. A. Simmons and T. V. Zorikov	仿生蝙蝠谐波	When echolocating big brown bats fly in complex surroundings, echoes arriving from irrelevant objects (clutter) located to the sides of their sonar beam can mask perception of relevant objects located to the front (targets), causing "blind spots." Because the second harmonic is beamed more weakly to the sides than the first harmonic, these clutter echoes have a weaker second harmonic. In psychophysical experiments, we found that electronically misaligning first and second harmonics in echoes (to mimic the misalignment of corresponding neural responses to harmonics in clutter echoes) disrupts the bat's echo-delay perception but also prevents clutter masking. Electronically offsetting harmonics to realign their neural responses restores delay perception but also clutter interference. Thus, bats exploit harmonics to distinguish clutter echoes from target echoes, sacrificing delay acuity to suppress masking.	
Geophysical Methods for Wreck-Site Monitoring: the Rapid Archaeological Site Surveying and Evaluation (RASSE) programme	2011	C. R. Bates, M. Lawrence, M. Dean and P. Robertson	海洋考古测绘	Rapid advances in geophysical techniques over the past decade have provided the maritime archaeological community with significant opportunities for re-defining the procedures for wreck-site mapping, evaluation and monitoring. The techniques which offer most potential for high-resolution survey are acoustic-based and include sidescan sonar, swath-bathymetry sonar and multibeam sonar. These techniques were tested on an artificial test-site in Plymouth Sound and over the wreck of the Stirling Castle. Results demonstrate that the techniques can provide the maritime archaeologist with the opportunity to rapidly and cost-effectively map and monitor small, centimetric changes on sites, with the potential for long-term monitoring and management. (C) 2009 The Authors	
Semisynthetic Versus Real-World Sonar Training Data for the Classification of Mine-Like Objects	2015	C. Barngrover, R. Kastner and S. Belongie	SSS探雷	The detection of mine-like objects (MLOs) in sidescan sonar (SSS) imagery continues to be a challenging task. In practice, subject matter experts tediously analyze images searching for MLOs. In the literature, there are many attempts at automated target recognition (ATR) to detect the MLOs. This paper focuses on the classifiers that use computer vision and machine learning approaches. These techniques require large amounts of data, which is often prohibitive. For this reason, the use of synthetic and semisynthetic data sets for training and testing is commonplace. This paper shows how a simple semisynthetic data creation scheme can be used to pretest these data-hungry training algorithms to determine what features are of value. The paper provides real-world testing and training data sets in addition to the semisynthetic training and testing data sets. The paper considers the Haar-like and local binary pattern (LBP) features with boosting, showing improvements in performance with real classifiers over semisynthetic classifiers and improvements in performance as semisynthetic data set size increases.	
A Brain-Computer Interface (BCI) for the Detection of Mine-Like Objects in Sidescan Sonar Imagery	2016	C. Barngrover, A. Althoff, P. DeGuzman and R. Kastner	SSS探雷	Detection of mine-like objects (MLOs) in sidescan sonar imagery is a problem that affects our military in terms of safety and cost. The current process involves large amounts of time for subject matter experts to analyze sonar images searching for MLOs. The automation of the detection process has been heavily researched over the years and some of these computer vision approaches have improved dramatically, providing substantial processing speed benefits. However, the human visual system has an unmatched ability to recognize objects of interest. This paper posits a brain-computer interface (BCI) approach, that combines the complementary benefits of computer vision and human vision. The first stage of the BCI, a Haar-like feature classifier, is cascaded in to the second stage, rapid serial visual presentation (RSVP) of images chips. The RSVP paradigm maximizes throughput while allowing an electroencephalography (EEG) interest classifier to determine the human subjects' recognition of objects. In an additional proposed BCI system we add a third stage that uses a trained support vector machine (SVM) based on the Haar-like features of stage one and the EEG interest scores of stage two. We characterize and show performance improvements for subsets of these BCI systems over the computer vision and human vision capabilities alone.	
A Featureless Approach to Efficient Bathymetric SLAM Using Distributed Particle Mapping	2011	S. Barkby, S. B. Williams, O. Pizarro and M. V. Jakuba	水下无特征SLAM	This paper presents an approach to simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) suitable for efficient bathymetric mapping that does not require explicit identification tracking or association of seafloor features This is accomplished using a Rao-Blackwellized particle filter in which each particle maintains a hypothesis of the current vehicle state and a grid-based two-dimensional depth map efficiently stored by exploiting redundancies between different maps Distributed particle mapping is employed to remove the computational expense of map copying during the resampling process The proposed approach to bathymetnc SLAM is validated using multibeam sonar data collected by an autonomous underwater vehicle over a small-timescale mission (2 h) and a remotely operated vehicle over a large-timescale mission (11 h) The results demonstrate how observations of the seafloor structure improve the estimated trajectory and resulting map when compared to dead reckoning fused with ultrashort-baseline or long-baseline observations The consistency and robustness of this approach to common errors in navigation is also explored Furthermore, results are compared with a preexisting state-of-the art bathymetnc SLAM technique confirming that similar results can be achieved at a fraction of the computation cost (C) 2010 Wiley Periodicils Inc	
Modeling 2-D Lens-Based Forward-Scan Sonar Imagery for Targets With Diffuse Reflectance	2016	M. D. Aykin and S. S. Negahdaripour	FLS简单目标仿真	Sonar images are formed by transmitting acoustical pulses and measuring the reflected sound power from the scene surfaces. The recorded signal by a sonar device encodes information about the shape and material properties of these surfaces. In this paper, we present a detailed derivation of an image model for a new class of high-resolution lens-based 2-D forward-looking sonar systems, when the diffuse reflectance of scene/target can be characterized by the Lambertian model. A simplified single patch model is generalized to account for the finite pulse width of the transmitted beam and the simultaneous arrival of scattered signals from multiple patches at the same range in a given azimuthal direction. Validating the model using intensity measurements of isolated cylindrical targets, we then demonstrate application for multipath reflections from bottom surfaces with cylindrical and spherical targets.	
Three-Dimensional Target Reconstruction From Multiple 2-D Forward-Scan Sonar Views by Space Carving	2017	M. D. Aykin and S. Negahdaripour	FLS三维物体重建	Building 3-D object models from 2-D images is a key capability for target classification and identification, reacquisition, and environmental mapping, among many applications in underwater with poor visibility. We present a novel approach in utilizing multiple 2-D forward-look sonar images from known sonar poses to localize an acoustically opaque target and reconstruct its 3-D shape. Based on projections onto various images, the 3-D space not occupied by an imaged target within the sonar field of view is sequentially carved out, leaving the remaining volume as the estimate of the 3-D object region. The estimation generally improves with information from new distinct views, and moreover with images acquired through sonar roll motions, rather than circumnavigating the target. Computer simulations allow assessing the convergence properties and performance of the approach for convex and concave polygons. Additionally, results from experiments with real images of amorphous coral rocks and a miniature wood table demonstrate performance in the 3-D modeling of small objects with varying reflectance properties.	
On Feature Matching and Image Registration for Two-dimensional Forward-scan Sonar Imaging	2013	M. D. Aykin and S. Negahdaripour	FLS配准	The computer processing of forward-look sonar video imagery enables significant capabilities in a wide variety of underwater operations within turbid environments. Accurate automated registration of sonar video images to complement measurements from traditional positioning devices can be instrumental in the detection, localization, and tracking of distinct scene targets, building feature maps, change detection, as well as improving precision in the positioning of unmanned submarines. This work offers a novel solution for the registration of two-dimensional (2-D) forward-look sonar images recorded from a mobile platform, by optimization over the sonar 3-D motion parameters. It incorporates the detection of key features and landmarks, and effectively represents them with Gaussian maps. Improved performance is demonstrated with respect to the state-of-the-art approach utilizing 2-D similarity transformation, based on experiments with real data. (C) 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.	
A Statistically-Based Method for the Detection of Underwater Objects in Sonar Imagery	2019	A. Ahu and R. Diamant	SAS无监督目标检测	We offer a new unsupervised statistically-based algorithm for the detection of underwater objects in synthetic aperture sonar (SAS) imagery due to its high-resolution imagery and because its resolution is independent of the range. In contrast to other methods that do not utilize the statistical model of the shadow region, our algorithm combines highlight detection and shadow detection using a weighted likelihood ratio test, while exploiting the expected spatial distribution of potential objects. We detect highlights by a higher-order-statistics representation of the image, followed by a segmentation process to form a region-of-interest (ROI). Then, while taking into account the sonar elevation and scan angle, for each ROI, we use a support vector machine (SVM) over the statistical features of the pixels within the ROI to detect shadow-related pixels and background pixels. Our algorithm has the benefit of being robust as a result of setting its main parameters in situ. Moreover, we do not require knowledge about the target's shape or size, thereby making our algorithm suitable for all sonar detection applications and sonar types. To test detection performance, using our own autonomous underwater vehicle, we collected 270 sonar images, which we also share with the community. Compared to the results of benchmark schemes, our detection algorithm shows a trade-off between the probability of detection and the false alarm rate (FAR), which is close to the Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence lower bound.	
Accumulated CA-CFAR Process in 2-D for Online Object Detection From Sidescan Sonar Data	2015	G. G. Acosta and S. A. Villar	SSS目标检测CFAR	This paper describes a novel approach to object detection from sidescan sonar (SSS) acoustical images. The current techniques of acoustical images processing consume a great deal of time and computational resources with many parameters to tune in order to obtain good quality images. This is due to the handling of the large data volume generated by these kinds of devices. The technique proposed in this work does not make any a priori assumption about the nature of the SSS image to be processed. However, it is able to make a segmentation of the image into two types of regions: acoustical highlight and seafloor reverberation areas, and based on this, it makes detection. The developed algorithm to achieve this consists of a migration and adaptation of a technique widely used in radar technology for detecting moving objects. This radar technique is known as the cell average-constant false alarm rate (CA-CFAR). This paper presents a drastic improvement of such approach by making an extension into 2-D analysis of the SSS image, in a way similar to integral image used in CA-CFAR detection for pulse Doppler radar. In this form, optimization of the computational effort is achieved. This new technique was called the accumulated cell average-constant false alarm rate in 2-D (ACA-CFAR 2-D). It was applied to pipeline detection and tracking with a very interesting degree of success. In addition, this technique provides similar results to image segmentation with respect to other frequently used approaches, but with much less computational resources and parameters to set. Its simplicity is a strong support of its robustness and accuracy. This feature makes it particularly attractive for using it in real-time applications, such as underwater robotics perception systems. This proposal was tested experimentally with acoustical data from SSS and the results detecting pipelines, and other shapes like sunken vessels or airplanes, are presented in this paper. Likewise, an experimental comparison with the results obtained with inverse undecimated discrete wavelet transform (UDWT) and active contours techniques is also presented.	
